let me show you how to build a full
stack node app from beginning to end i
don't care if create read get post put
delete doesn't make sense i got you by
the end of this class you'll be able to
build a full stack web application all
the code and all the help you need is
available on our discord leonwell.com
discord let's get into it
yeah
hey hey does this work
hey let's go good morning good afternoon
good evening no matter where you're
coming from
let's go
am i late aaron now you're just in time
how's everybody doing
welcome through rascal 2 with the raid
27 before stream let's go turn up
alrighty folks we're getting into it
get right into it i'm going to keep the
chit chat to a minimum tonight we're
gonna do some celebrations we got a
bunch of jobs that came through so i'm
gonna throw up the ones i can we're
gonna just do a quick uh a quick
celebration quick thank you and then
right into the crud uh we've been
we've been delayed a little bit and so i
want to get right into it i want to make
sure that we go over this uh to-do list
this crud app get through it really go
into detail ask any questions you have
and then we're going to add the layers
folks we're going gonna add mvc to it
which is some of your reading for
homework tonight then we're gonna add
authentication to it and then
you can build anything
you you can build anything
once you can once you can do the
authentication there's nothing stopping
you
nothing stopping you
from building whatever the heck you want
all right folks glad you're here
ah let's do that let me get the little
leon here
i always like to ask some questions
we'll do one
one question tonight always got to start
with a question one question and then
right into celebrations right into cred
we called in the big guns
billy hey thank you for the gift that
subs pulled in the big guns
needed some help
i needed some help i was i was working
hard
i was working hard in the agency you
know i was working hard in the agency
but need a little help so we called in
we called in grandma so grandma's here
tonight
grandma's helping us out so we'll get
through a full class tonight we're going
to do all right
all right we pulled in the big guns so
we're set for tonight we're getting
through this crowd we're getting through
this application uh we're going to make
it happen
thank you grandma exactly
all right
i want to answer one question then we're
going to get into it
how long will class be today we're gonna
go normal time about three hours try and
go as deep as we can with the with this
crud if there's more questions good if
we finished a little early that's all
right
definitely going over time nah nah we're
going to be good
also good afternoon the simple card app
i hope you felt that too
uh boxing there said just getting into
coding or all the previous videos on
youtube absolutely you can do
exclamation point youtube uh when you do
that you'll see all of our past videos
on there and all the materials
everything's on discord shout out to the
ketchup crew for folks that are working
through those videos and child rascal ii
rascal two who did the raid today um i
don't know if you noticed but every
single youtube video they do the time
stamps for us i appreciate it
all right
we got our question let's get right into
it
checking in uh when i sent the discord
message today i
linked the wrong tweet so if you're
trying to check in
i can do exclamation point check in when
you do that you'll get the link to the
tweet today and so make sure you go
ahead and like and retweet that that's
how i know that you're here that's how i
take attendance uh it's also how more
folks find us
so if you click the link in the discord
message in the beginning that was wrong
it was last it was last classes so make
sure you have this class is in there uh
and make sure you check in
cool
i'll give everybody a second to do that
i was wondering yeah uh some folks let
me know whenever that happens just let
me know
vape juice jordan what's going on with
the raid let's go how are you doing
what are you all up to
in a minute
we gotta we gotta i heard i heard you're
starting a podcast
i'm i'm pumped
i'm pumped
trash that too hey let's go i'm pumped
i'm gonna uh i i'm pumped i'm ready for
it i need it in my life so i'm glad
you're doing it
thanks for the raid hope you're doing
well
what are you all doing today what was
the stream
true hey what's going on congrats on the
new gig
gang's all here
uh when that podcast drops let us know
we'll we'll we'll pump it on uh on the
hundred devs discord as much as we can
hope you all are doing well
cool
thanks for the raid
all right
thanks for checking in folks
hope you all
had some chance to do that
all right let's get into it health first
all right health first we're about to go
through a a a
monumental amount of work in terms of
the hunt
getting the job is the hardest part of
the process
there's gonna be lots of things you have
to do lots of doors you have to open
right
and as you go through this part of the
process we talked about it before this
is probably the most difficult the most
mentally demanding put your health first
if you need to take a night take a night
if you need to not open a door don't
open it right take the time check in on
yourself check in on each other
community taught right make sure we're
all doing well because this is the this
is this is go time this is this is where
the the rubber meets the road where we
gotta we gotta do the things all right
so please
make sure that you're taking care of
yourself health first always
i took time you take time if you need it
cool
uh just in case folks are just joining
us tonight uh this week this month full
stack apps we're adding mvc we're adding
authentication we're doing all that
wonderful stuff then september is a
little bit of react some data structures
algorithms really starting to hunt and
everything you're going to need for that
job search process and then october is
living the life really doing the hunt
projects prep all that fun stuff and
then agency life afterwards
cool
i'm gonna say it again i'm gonna sing it
from the mountaintops folks are already
getting jobs don't let that be the thing
that distracts you i'm not asking you to
start the hunt yet i haven't asked you
yet
right but remember this is this is your
this is this is your your life your
thing to do right some folks like to
start sooner some folks like to jump
right into it all my past videos from
last cohort guess what they're all on
youtube if you want it to go faster pop
over to youtube boom you got it you can
go as fast as you want
right
um but when you see these jobs coming in
right understand that different folks
have different privileges of time they
have the ability to focus on things
we're not i'm not asking you to be ready
for the hunt yet
i'm asking you to start doing the things
that we've been saying in class we're
talking about making sure you're doing
your daily code challenge make sure
you're doing your banky make sure you're
doing the little things that are getting
us ready for the hunt and then we go
hard
right then we go hard
but folks are already starting that's
okay we're all in the same roller
coaster we're going to get there
eventually together um
know
that as we go forward
you already know enough
you're already ready you are already
software engineers
you are already software developers
i i can't stand it
it gets my goat
when people say
aspiring no you're developers you write
code you understand the code we're about
to go through tonight
you've built projects some of you have
clients some of you are already
interviewing you're a developer you
already know enough you can go out there
right now and get a job
we have folks
and i showed you last class
i showed you all last cohort
half our folks weren't doing technical
interviews to get these
entry-level rolls
don't let it get twisted in your brain
that there's all this extra stuff that
you have to latch on to when folks get
to the end they start latching onto all
these things that are not the things
they're going to help move the needle
double down on the things that we know
work
the bank
making sure your checklist is is
complete making sure you're doing your
coding challenges make sure you're
keeping up your networking
do that and by the time we get to the
hunt i promise you will be ready i'm
going to lay out all the secrets all the
tips all the tricks i know to help you
get the job but we have just a few more
things i want on your plate to open
those doors
right i want to add some organizational
paradigms i want to add a little bit of
react i want to add your data structures
and algorithms so we can open up as many
of those doors as we can and when you do
that enables more opportunity to come
your way but
you already know enough don't let
anybody take that away from you
don't let anybody on twitter say that
you're aspiring no you're [__]
software engineers you're writing
phenomenal code you're doing big things
and folks it's already working
hundreds of folks last cohort we're
seeing dozens and dozens of folks
already from this cohort you're good
hang in there this is the hardest part
this is where you're gonna be tested the
most but the other side is so
so
sweet
now we're spending a lot of time
together a lot of time and voice calls a
lot of time working in projects it's a
reminder to be kind
that's all i ask
be kind you can't be kind if you can't
leave the
the weird conversations off of discord
uh you'll probably get a ban that's okay
you can always be requested to be
unbanned
we're trying to build the best community
online to learn how to code don't care
about any of the other stuff can't be
kind
deuces
bye
all my content's free online uh
you can get all the assignments
everything you need and voice channels
were watching you
some of you all like to be a little
reckless no more be careful watch your
mouth
and help me with the sale
cool
all right
could i start a band band to be mean to
each other
all right
uh let's let's power through these and
right into the cred like i promised
uh there's so many folks getting jobs or
clients um that i'm not adding them all
like just the ones that like if you like
if you look at me on twitter or like you
at me in the celebrations channel
there's probably a better chance of it
um but
there's a lot of y'all and so i put a
tweet out there i was like this is
getting a little getting a little wild
getting a little out of hand here but
there's so many y'all coming through
that it's it's amazing to see i'm just
gonna put a small subset of them here um
i love this one imagine getting a
six-figure offer and not being sure
about it what sort of monster have you
created a let's go
let's go
uh through my networking exercise i got
a paid client uh and another interview
for october i love it remember y'all
could still be freelancing
y'all could still be freelancing uh
we're moving into the phase where folks
are starting to ask for like references
and
um
and for like employment verification all
that fun stuff which we're going to talk
about
probably next week because it's starting
to become a lot
um
but the best reference you could have is
your clients right people that have
actually worked with your code
that have paid you money like that's
that's huge if you still haven't gotten
a client keep working at that people are
on their third fourth client now
for folks that kind of kept up with it
if it's something that you weren't able
to achieve earlier in the program you
know way more now try again
all right
uh
getting a wonderful internship at pmc uh
the the beautiful thing is that if
internships pay
do them they're they're great like like
some folks get it twisted like no
getting your door your foot in the door
uh at a paid opportunity where you can
learn and grow phenomenal
uh holy cow
had a second interview today first round
interview tomorrow
and another first round on friday i get
down my second round interview today and
got a call shortly after with a job
offer let's go
let's go job offer let's go
uh good time to announce i accepted
associate software developer role with
sas i'll be starting next week 100 devs
let's go
and i love that uh they shouted out the
community we got some some good folks
here
love to see it
accepted an offer from apple uh now
i'm not a i'm not a
i'm not a fan peddler right
but uh it's pretty cool to see they got
an offer from apple
they did have an internship at nasa so i
i think we were there to help a little
bit but they put in work before they got
here
um
i love that people are still getting
clients uh newer clients agreed to my
proposal and set a 20
payment for a new website always get
paid up front folks
uh i love when folks shift
from
one part of the company to another we
have a lot of folks that are customer
service representatives that are in
different parts of a tech company that
make their way into the developer round
and so i love to see it happen here
uh
a few months of hard work practice
preparation let you know i got a full
stack dev rolled a really cool company
love to see it um
love that they shouted out the community
as well
uh
made it after the trough
i've made it
after
after the trough has come a signed
sealed contract for my first full-time
developer role uh grateful and i love to
shout out the mods the mods do all the
heavy lifting if you like the community
it's because the mods have helped mold
it to be that way and so uh shout out i
saw i saw some folks i saw blah in chat
already but uh always please
give some big thanks to the mods right
we have we have 38 000 people in that
discord can we can we just take a pause
for a second
000 people
in that discord
and the fact that it's not a complete
flaming mess that it's not just like
exploding and and just
filth everywhere
is because of the mods doing an amazing
amount of work and i can't tell you like
some of the stuff that folks like the
mods do
it's it's
it's not fun work
it's not fun work let's just let's be
very clear right
it's it's oh no
the threading tool that we use broke and
div kirk goes through and clears out a
hundred threads manually so that when
you log in it just looks normal
right
or
having to have really tough
conversations with folks that
don't understand that we're all here to
learn right like that's a lot of
emotional labor
that falls on the shoulders of the mods
and i am forever uh thankful so i love
that they shouted out the mods if you
love this community if you like this
community if you get anything from this
community
shout out to everyone that's here but
shout out the mods for sure
so that's my thank you
uh the other thing too
it's at the beginning of my slides
it's it's uh
it's a beautiful drake lyric
i don't care about going milan or the
met i just want to make these songs for
the set that's how i feel about 100 does
i don't care about any of that crap i
just want to make a good course that can
help folks get jobs and it's amazing to
see so many other folks participate and
and help with that that vision right
there are folks in the world that just
want to help that show up to 100 devs to
put in the work to help you all to help
each other and they that you see them
right
you see them right the folks that just
show up
that that that jump in discord voice
channels to to do data structures and
algorithms classes the stream team that
is streaming six
plus hours to help you cover some of the
homework shout out wolf pack right like
that that's that's rare
that's kind of that's kind of
it's kind of
kind of wild that that happens
right
it's kind of while that happens that we
have folks that come up that aren't
trying to sell a book that like that
happens all the time
the number of people like leon do you do
you ever have guests on your street no i
don't just put in the work
come help if you want to help just help
and the fact that we have folks that
show up day in and day out that just
help that help
push folks into these amazing jobs that
they're getting that help people learn
how to code that give up their nights
their weekends their mornings their
afternoons
i love it and so a huge thank you to
everyone that does that um a huge thank
you to everyone that just
shows up that wants to help i love it
cool
we're jumping right into the crud folks
uh the thing i need you to realize is
that right now
it's still just
lego
it's all it is
a lot of folks get
they get really anxious
they get really nervous
around the syntax
guess what
we don't need to really understand every
bit
and piece
of the syntax right now that's
that's not the goal
the goal is to understand right
all right how's the web built
what are the requests when the requests
come in what are we doing what are we
putting stuff into a database what
what's happening right
and that's where i need you to be i need
you to understand like how all these
pieces all these building blocks come
together how all these lego pieces come
together don't sweat the syntax you
could always copy and paste
right the code's not going away
casual said oh my oh my god that's
what's killing me right now it's so
different from traditional learning yes
right like
you can you can always google the next
lego piece that's what we're doing we're
building legos
right now i don't need you to understand
every semicolon parentheses it's just
not
it's not the wave right
you're taking these lego pieces and
putting them together
and as long as you know where you put
your lego pieces you're good so as long
as you have your your repos you have
your code that's saved in in good
folders right
we're just going to be taking those
pieces
right we're taking those pieces and
putting them together
right and so
i really want you to lean into that
because i'm going to show you we're
going to work through the code tonight
that you've seen that you've tried to
comment already like we've already seen
this code let's focus on understanding
what's happening and don't don't code we
need the syntax right then we're going
to add a an organizational paradigm on
top of this code again don't don't
stress about the syntax understand like
why are we putting this type of code
there why are we organizing it in this
way and then we're going to add
authentication
and when we add authentication
are you a cyber security expert
maybe you are maybe there's a few of you
there's a few of you right
i'm not
i don't think most of us are
so we're not coding that from scratch
we're we're not we're taking that off
the shelf
and plugging it in
to our code
we're not putting in that work right
we're not putting in that work to to to
to do all that research to make our
application secure doesn't mean we don't
understand what's going on
but that's not that's not our domain
right
so
as our applications
get more complex
as our applications get more complex
what are we just adding more of
we're just adding more legos
into our beautiful beautiful castle that
we are building right and so you can't
stress
that you don't know what's like how that
lego brick was made like when you're
playing with legos you're not stressing
over uh this injection molding i don't
really understand how injection molding
works like i wonder how what color dye
they put in to get the red bricks
right like like
maybe one or two of us had like that
existential crisis when we were like six
or seven
uh where where we were trying to like
figure out injection molding and and the
color green
but most of the time we probably just
built a castle right and that's what
we're doing we're taking all these
bricks that others have already put
together that have already made for us
and we're building with them so
over time
you get past the understanding right
some people hear this and they they take
it the wrong way once we get past the
understanding which is the tricky bit
you're going to build your ass off
right once we get past the understanding
you're gonna build your ass off you're
gonna put a hundred hours into building
a project and as you are building that
hundred hours project
guess what you also pick up along the
way
believe it or not
the syntax
right
right believe it or not
the syntax the the curly braces the the
where stuff goes
but that's not where we need to be right
now we need to understand how it all
comes together we understand all right
how do we organize it how do we add
authentication to it like we have to do
all these things that are understanding
exercises and then we are going to build
build build the best way to learn is
building if you just turned off the
stream right now and went and built i'd
be a happy camper i'd be i'd be fine
with that
we're going to get to the point where we
understand and then we build build build
build and that's where all the syntax
and all the pieces come together if you
start right from the beginning
um
with understanding a little bit and i'm
not talking like
we're gonna do this for a couple more
weeks like we're gonna do this for like
a couple more weeks that's it and then
your build build build build build right
and so keep that in mind you're playing
with legos take some of the stress
some of this stress off your shoulders
right
make sure you understand what's
happening make sure you understand the
concepts when you don't understand
what's happening when you don't
understand what the concepts are
boy do i have something amazing for you
we have the stream team that's often
covering these topics in detail if
you're doing the homework and get stuck
my wolf has been going through the
homeworks on stream like go watch those
videos like what are you doing you're
getting stuck with the homework go watch
those videos and then we cover that in
class again
right we cover it in class again
remember you have our our videos that
also go on youtube remember that we have
the past cohorts video on youtube and
then also know that you have discord
come to discord and ask
questions
right
come to discord and ask questions
cool
all right
before we jump into it we gotta bring
back
i i just i said but first so i'll say
but first uh how does the internet work
right we're going we're going to talk
about a cred app tonight we're going to
we're going to see the to-do list in
action
right we're going to see the to-do list
in action
right
we're going to talk about how does the
internet work first cool
all right so
we have
wires how's the internet work yeah it's
it's a wire it's a tube it's a
connection of two different kinds of
devices right we have our lovely
client side devices and we have our
lovely
server
side devices you missed my handwriting i
know you have
whoa
now
our client-side devices make a request
and when they make requests those
requests wind up heading all the way
over to the server remember our clients
and our servers are both just
computers
but there's some code
running on our server that can hear that
request
what is the code
running on our server that's set up to
listen for our requests
yeah we're calling that our api
our api is set up
to listen right it's set up to listen
for certain
requests
and when it hears those requests we have
coded it with what we want to have
happen
right
we are coding it with what we would want
to have happen
we are in control
of what happens
when we hear those requests that's what
we're building out we're just building
out
really really complicated event
listeners right well not really
complicated somewhat complicated right
we hear those requests
right
and then we get to decide what happens
when we hear those requests when we hear
those requests we can make it
when we hear the requests we can make it
fire a rocket chip when we hear the
request we could make it call dominoes
well i can't maybe you can right when we
hear the requests that come through we
can make it store something in the
database
you
get to control
what happens when you hear those
requests now
it just so happens
that there are some really common things
that we're going to do
on the web right a lot of times we're
going to hear a request
and we need to like store some data in a
database
sometimes we're going to hear a request
and we need to get
some data
right get
some data from a request
right i mean from the database sometimes
we'll hear a request and we gotta update
something in a database sometimes we're
gonna hear a request and we just need to
say hey we couldn't find what you were
looking for
right
so
what
we are going to do tonight
is look at a very simple application
a very simple to do list
and we're going to look at some of the
common requests
and some of the common things that we're
going to do
when we hear
that request
and
we're adding these legos
right we're adding these legos into our
repertoire
by the end of tonight's class you should
at least be familiar with each of the
different pieces that we've done
and
be able to say you know what i might not
be able to code this from scratch
i probably couldn't right but i know
that oh
in my to-do list
i was able to store something into a
database with my to-do list i was able
to get something out of a database if i
ever need to do those things again i
know where to start
all right i know what legos to play with
no stress we're playing
with some
legos
really like leon i stressed my ass off
playing with legos they had to get the
perfect the perfect castle if it wasn't
perfect i was stressing
right
cool
now
the common requests
that we're going to see
are our cred
requests right our create creating our
reading our updating our delighting
right these requests where we're
typically saying hey make something
get something change something remove
something right these are the common
requests we're going to see across
all pretty much all web apps right
right coming across pretty much all web
apps
right
and so
what we're going to do is break down
these requests
into a to-do list see the creating see
the reading see the updating see the
deleting see the making the getting the
changing the removing and see the code
associated with it
cool
all right
now some other things we're putting into
the mix that we've seen in the past
couple of classes
right
mongodb is the database we're using for
now right someone will use for most the
program we'll see a little sequel at the
end as well
the reason why i like mongodb
right is because if you've used objects
you know how to use mongodb
right
if you've used objects you know what the
heck you're doing we don't have to make
it any more wild than that
in mongodb we have collections inside of
our collections we have documents and
those documents are just objects just
think about that for right now right
if we know that we're dealing with a
grouping of objects we could start to
add objects to that group we can update
objects that are already
inside that group we can
remove objects from that group right and
so the wonderful thing here is that
we are able to
use the things that we should feel a
little bit comfortable with at the
moment to have all the wonderful
benefits of being able to store stuff
long term right to have a database where
we can put stuff get stuff update stuff
delete stuff too
using just the stuff that we've been
already comfortable with
now
the bane of some folks existence is ejs
i love ejs
i really do
it just in my brain makes sense i
understand that that's not the case for
everyone that's okay we're going to
introduce a lot of other kind of
templating languages and some other
stuff we'll see and then we get to react
you can you can let it go if you want
right
egs to reason why i like egs is because
once you learn two things
that's it
right it's really just two things
right
it's really just two things
one thing is this code block right here
which is this like
carrot
the modulus equals right that's just how
you plug in stuff like you plug in
variables it's like a very fancy
um it's a very fancy mad libs right you
just plug something in you're dropping a
value in right you're just plugging in
some sort of variable you're plugging in
some sort of value and that's it right
it's a template rule exactly it's just
like a template literal right
i'm here for fancy mad libs
it's just a template literal exactly
we've used template literals so much in
javascript already
just think of it as that way as well
right you're just plugging something in
just like you would use in javascript
right
then
you have this block right here the
carrot modulus
right carrot modulus modulus carrot
right right
that's just a code block
you can throw in any type of javascript
that you want
right
you could throw in any type of
javascript you want you want to throw in
conditionals
you want to throw in for loops you want
to throw in pretty much anything that
we've learned thus far
just throw it
inside
a set of these
right and you're done
that's it
and so i like egs because if you can
just keep those two things in your brain
right
you keep those two things in your brain
then you're just kind of like reading
html with some javascript mixed in and
maybe that was my my bad for
for for uh
hammering in separation concerns so
early
we could talk about presentation logic
versus others but
for me
i learned those two things
and it opened up a world for me right i
use other things now right
i use other things now of course
but when i first understood
that to write ejs i'm just writing html
if i want to plug in a value or a
variable
i use the equal and if i want to have
like a code block where i'm like doing a
little bit of larger
uh javascript inside of it i just have
this little block here and i open it and
i can close it do whatever i want
those two things i think opened up a
world for me i went i went wild i was
building apps on apps on apps anything i
could i wanted to do i could i could
throw in right and it would just work i
could plug things in i could i can plug
in code right
and uh it just it just worked is it
pretty
eye of the beholder right
but does it work yes so don't um
don't
let the the code block versus inserting
kind of mess you up inside it's really
just those two things and as you see it
more and as we go through it tonight
hopefully it makes a little um
a little bit more sense
you said it had to be pretty
i want things to be pretty
yeah
all right
so here's what we're gonna wind up
seeing
most of the apps that we build going
forward right
we're going to have our client
which can make requests
we're going to have our server
which has our api code on it that's
listening to the requests that are
coming in
and when we hear those requests we're
going to do different stuff right
so many times
right so many times i'm just going to
put stuff into a database get stuff out
of a database right so this kind of
layout or system is what we're going to
use over and over again right
beveren said there are so many options
handlebars views next so hard to know
what to use
just build
build that's that's the biggest answer
right
i think it's a really important question
especially at this point in time
at this point in time i i work were and
and this is from my own experience too
right from my own experience i felt like
i was
i felt like i was a fish in a really big
pond
chasing anything that was shiny
right when i was first learning to code
i'd be like oh and i would run off right
or oh and i run off and i do something
else right
and what i was doing is i was getting
myself in a in a trap
where i wasn't like actually doing stuff
that would get me my goal
right
if your goal is to learn something new
every other week
go for it
chase the shiny thing don't let me stop
you
if your goal is to get a job stop
build an application
using
express which we've already learned
mongodb which you've already seen
right
ejs which we've already seen and there's
you only have to learn two things and
build
as soon as you hit a roadblock
where you can't do the things that you
want to do
right when you hit a roadblock you're
like this is too limiting
then add that other thing
that's it
that's what i wish somebody would have
like
i wish they would have like grabbed me
and just like stared deeply in my eyes
and told me
you know enough
you know mongodb
you know express
you know ejs
you can build whatever you want with
just those things
and an employer
is going to be way happier having seen a
hundred hours project where you've
learned and built and three other
smaller team projects where you've
learned and built then seeing the
tutorial that you did
in that shiny thing over a weekend
you know enough
right
jdb says bro i wish i would have known
this too
right and and so
like i always say don't let some person
on the internet tell you what to do
right don't let some person on the
internet tell you what to do
but
the stuff that we've covered and the
stuff we're finishing tonight is enough
to build whatever the heck you want
right get out there build build build
build and i guarantee some of you will
hit a point where you're like
this is
frustrating or i can't really do exactly
what i want to do or i'm doing something
over and over again and that feels icky
because i'm a software engineer and we
don't like to to redo stuff right and
when you hit that point then you'll go
oh that's why that tool is so popular
and you'll incorporate it into your
project
most 100 hour projects start off with
just
ejs
node express
mongodb
you get 75 hours in and you're like oh
crap i would be really happy if i
incorporated this other thing and then
when you're in an interview not only can
you show the project that you've built
but you have a real world use case as to
why that thing you added was beneficial
i can't tell you how much
realer that sounds when you're talking
to another engineer and you're like you
know what i hit this roadblock
i hit this like um
i hit this i hit this point where i just
felt like i wasn't being efficient and
that's why i added this this framework
right
that comes across
so much better
right
then i decided i want to pick up this
thing and i ran with it right
get there get there get there and then
feel like if you need to bring it in
all right
my project is kind of too big for one
person
build an mvp every project i don't care
how big it is has something small that
you can start with
right
something small you can start with every
idea every project right
figure out what that is for your project
right your minimum viable product right
and start there
every single project could be started
with just
these simple tools that we're talking
about right and
then evolve into something more
my country is picked up by a tech
company they still ask for an mvp
and w smith said is a project with a
political slant a bad idea to showcase
um
remember how we talk about having as
many doors open as possible
when you do things that are
going to make one group of people really
happy and another group of people really
unhappy
you might close some doors but it might
close the doors that you don't care
about
right
um so i had a student i think i've
talked about this on on um i've talked
about this on stream i had a student
that wanted to build
uh a weed delivery app
there's like an app to deliver weed
and i was like
it was like
and i was like okay
that's that's great
can we do coffee instead
like can we just can we just like make
it a coffee delivery app and like wink
wink between me and you like we we know
what it really is and they were cool
with that right they were they were cool
with that they're like all right we'll
just make it it'll be a coffee app and
then when they were done they just like
had their own internal version that was
like the thing they actually really
wanted to build local commodities
delivery app right and i thought that
was a really good compromise because
they got to build the thing they really
wanted to build but to anyone that was
like looking internally um
they saw a coffee delivery app
and then like three years later some
another student had the same idea
right
student had the same idea and i was like
hey the person that passed made a coffee
app they're like nah
i'm like what do you mean they're like
nah i was like okay like that's cool you
know your clothing doors are like great
i want those doors to close like we had
that conversation and it boiled down to
like i want the places that aren't
comfortable with me like
smoking to to to
like i'm just not going to be a good
good fit for me and they went on to have
a phenomenal job right so i've seen both
tokens it's up to you how you want to
play the game i'm going to show you how
to play the game it's up to you to
figure out how you want to play it
right always
always up to you to figure out how you
want to play the game
and so you got to think about that
that's like an internal um
that's like an eternal like i can't make
that choice for you
cool
all right
so
um we're going to build a to-do list
we're going to build a to-do list and
the to-do list is going to follow this
pattern so let's take a look at our
to-do list here
the code is already on discord if you
are new around these parts uh discord is
the best place to kind of figure out
what we're doing day to day i can do
exclamation point discord uh to join 38
000 other people we're now discord
partners let's go um so yeah if you need
the code or you need help as you're
working through this code definitely
join us on discord that's where it's all
at all right
so here's our to-do list
on my to-do list right now i have get
oat milk and get fancy bread uh i can i
can remove stuff
i can add stuff
most bread is horrible these days i
don't know how we've messed up bread so
much
but it's really hard to find good bread
[Laughter]
true i couldn't get that so i joined a
staff hey
turn up any means necessary let's go
[Laughter]
congrats on the new gig again they're so
lucky to have you
mess it up
help us out
is is poised to be amazing and so i'm
glad you're there to help make it that
way
cool
all right so we we added items
right
we removed items
um
notice that we
have something really beautiful here in
that it tells us how many things are
left to do
and we can even mark things as kind of
complete
right so when i mark it complete notice
my to-do's have dropped
right to-do's have dropped right and so
last thing we can do is we saw that we
were able to add
remove
update and delete that sounds pretty
pretty cruddy to me
[Music]
got him
[Laughter]
it's like uh
my
my child was born and i was like
ah dad jokes
my um
my sister got me a a dad jokes book it's
lit i'm i'm all about it you got good
dad jokes send them to me
that's the only dms i want
the only dms i want are like good dad
jokes you got good dad jokes blow out my
twitter dms please
all right
so we have our fancy to-do list it's
working uh what i want to do before we
start really getting into code right
before we want to get really into code i
want to break down what's happening here
like i want to i want to talk about the
requests that are coming through
what's happening and
then we're gonna look at the code
okay
all right
so we're looking at our to-do list
what are some crea what's the create
request that we're seeing
we're talking about crud create read
update delete what's the create request
that's coming through
yeah when we're adding an item right
we're adding an item uh to our list and
so if we're adding an item to the list
there are some steps that are going to
come through
um how are we actually making that
request like how are we
saying hey get fancy bread how did i
make that request chat
yeah there's a form right we have this
lovely form
and we're submitting this form
and when we submit the form we are
sending a request to our server
right so if we were to draw this out
we have a client side
we have a client side and on that client
side is a form
right
and when we submit that form we are
sending our requests
to our server
now
there is some code
running on our server that is set up to
hear that request and what is that code
what we call the code that set up to
hear our requests
yeah we got our api
right and there's some code running on
our api
right
and
when we make that create request
we're actually making a very specific
kind of request
right we're making when we submit that
form we're making a post
request right we're making a post
request right that's just the the method
that we're using right that's coming
from that form submission is a post
request
that request is making it all the way to
our api
and our api set up to hear that post
post and don't worry we're going to dive
deeper into the code after we like walk
through how all this is coming together
okay here's that post
and once it hears the post
what do we do
like when we hear that post what do we
need to do
once we hear that post
respond is the end we got a lot of steps
in between hearing and responding right
a lot of things that we got to do
uh once we hear that request
all right so we're going to set up our
application right
our application is going to
grab
whatever whatever came along with that
request we're going to grab the thing
that came along with it remember we're
trying to like
add something to our list so we're going
to get
i'm going to use a different word we're
going to grab
the item
that came along with that post request
right when we submitted that form we
sent a request and along with that
request was all this data including what
was inside of the form yeah the rec.body
had all the information about what was
inside that form and we're going to grab
the value out of the form
all right once we have that value
that was in the form it was in the form
what are we going to do with it
we have we have the the fancy bread that
was in the form when we submitted it
what are we gonna do with it
yeah we're going to add it to our
database right we're going to add it to
our database
great
and then once we've added it to our
database
what are we going to do next what's the
what's the last thing we're going to do
here for the fancy bread
yeah we're going to we're going to tell
the the client hey everything went well
we're going to respond
saying everything went okay
and that you should probably refresh
all right everything went okay and you
should probably refresh
all right and so
that everything went okay you should
probably refresh goes back to the client
the client's like okay everything went
okay and i should refresh
and it refreshes
and when it refreshes what type of
request does that actually make
it makes a get request and a get request
is a whole other separate set of
instructions remember we got our smurfs
on the block by themselves holding it
down we have a smurf that's listening
for a post request
we're gonna have a smurf that's
listening for a get request and they're
all going to do different stuff
right they're all going to do different
stuff so our app.post
grabbed the value that was in the form
and added it to the database
right
the get request is gonna hear that
request it's gonna go get stuff from the
database
right so each of these requests are
gonna do different stuff
and when we come back from break we're
gonna see it in action so let's go ahead
and take our five minutes on the clock
please
when we get back from the five minutes
we'll look at the next request which is
our get we're gonna look at our our put
we're gonna look at our delete and once
we feel comfortable with that's actually
happening we're going to look at the
code right we're going to look at the
code and make sure we understand what's
happening in the code base as well
when we come back we'll also we'll look
at when i'm not going to say it because
then people will do it but uh when we
come back we might look at a look at
some i don't know it might have been a
secret raffle or something i don't know
maybe maybe maybe
all right
um
[Laughter]
i'm getting dissected in interviews oof
the hunt is rough i'm telling you the
hunt is rough it's the hardest part of
the process right hardest part of the
process
yeah somebody said who are they they're
exactly
amazing tech folks who build right build
stuff in public uh
really just
fun people to hang out with while you're
coding i i like streams where i can just
kind of
like
be entertained but i'm also like
motivated at the same time because
sometimes that's what you need sometimes
i sometimes you don't need me
showing you how to code sometimes you
just want to watch somebody just
ball out or just have fun with it like
you sometimes you're just in that moment
where you're like you know i just want
to have fun with it and so i always
watch them because it helps me have fun
while i'm coding um
and uh it's a good community too
i'm literally just watching you work and
watching you right now yeah
i'm glad we trade off that's awesome
uh i got lucky the only tech question i
got was explain double equals equals
triple equals
[Applause]
you know enough folks
you know enough
you know enough see and when i try to
tell people this they think i'm just
like the wildest person i get like these
like
like weird dms
that are like you're you're leading
people astray like this is not the way
to do it i'm like bruh have you seen
them people have gotten job like they're
just like they can't believe it right
most people only have like
the microcosm of their experience
interviewing
and they think because they had to
delete code their eyeballs out they were
applying for the wrong jobs they weren't
connecting they weren't actually
networking their way into opportunities
they were just clicking apply when they
see someone that has double equals
versus triple equals as their interview
question their whole like internal
system just like shuts down
exactly they're big mad
and so
when i get out here and i tell people
look half the people had interviews
when half people i'm telling you get
interviews that's it that's double
equals versus triple equals i got what's
the difference between while and do
while exactly like these like simple
like like
you kind of got to know your stuff like
to get these but they're not like the
the things that are just like completely
out there that you're like grinding away
from no
network your way into applications study
the bank know
how to talk about yourself have strong
projects that you can show folks right
right and then we'll add all the other
stuff but
you are enough you know enough you have
the skills to get a job
the hunt
is the hunt for a reason
every time you go on a hunt you don't
get in you don't you don't get a you
don't get a kill
right every time you go out on the hunt
you don't get a kill right and so
sometimes you come back to feed it
sometimes you come back hungry
right sometimes you put you put a lot
into these interviews and you come back
hungry part of the process
but i'm telling you
there's so many opportunities that you
are ready for
you just gotta keep pushing along with
the process
pretty cool
yeah
crispy nugget what's going on been a
minute good to see you
discord asked very practical front end
questions i had to build two things out
you could use any framework but i picked
react and typescript that's dope
my wife rufio had a great stream on
learning how to talk about yourself
positively last week let's go
all right everybody let's take a look at
this again
and uh i'm going to delete this here
leon we've done this all right i know
we've done this already we're
we're we're hammering it in because this
is the most important stuff right like
this is it if you can if you can
understand what's happening in this
to-do list you can build whatever you
want
yeah you're gonna you're gonna have to
google a lot you're gonna have to like
use other frameworks libraries but like
this is it this is this is this is the
the the taking the lid off the cookie
jar and you can have as many cookies as
you want
scenario right
and so we've been away for a little
while we were on a break right i want to
make sure that we're transitioning back
into the stuff that matters
give me a class to transition back into
the stuff that matters let's get our
space repetition in and let's do the
stuff that's actually going to move the
needle as you start to build your
projects
i want lots of cookies
um
i don't know if i talked about this on
stream uh but my uncle one time was
sitting in the kitchen eating cookies
out the cookie jar
and my grandmother says
uh what are you doing those are dog
biscuits and my uncle just looks at her
and goes
and kept eating the dog biscuits
[Laughter]
they're good they're good right
and apparently most
most like i think it's like a i don't
don't quote me on this don't don't don't
go out eating dog and cat food because
somebody on the internet told you that
it was true
but i've heard that most cat and dog
food is actually like
human safe
because people do eat it like it's a
thing like during the depression people
ate dog and cat food like people are out
there and they they use it as a means of
sustenance so apparently in the us it is
a real deal so my uncle was a g and just
ate the dog biscuits because
he liked them
yeah
all right
cool
let's go ahead
i so true i don't know if you're still
here or not but
there's something very different about
streaming versus like trying to do
youtube videos like i've been trying to
do like i've been like building up a
backlog of videos before i start
releasing them like shorts tick tocks
whatever
it's been a lot of fun
but the amount of edits i have to do to
get like one video as opposed to just
talking on stream is just like it's just
astronomical i have no idea what the
difference is my brain just talks when
i'm on stream and does it when i'm
trying to record a video and sometimes
we wind up with silly stories so i'm
sorry you have to deal with the silly
story sometimes but it's just how my
brain works if i don't if i don't do it
then we don't get class so all right
let's get back into this
talked about crud the creating right the
creating so we're going to add
biscuits
to our to-do list
and when i add the biscuits
i have created
i submitted
this form
i submitted this form and out here in
the internet was my server
right when i click submit on that form
what type of request did i make chat
what type of request did i make when i
submitted that form
people forgot about the engagement
thank you for the engagement
it's a post request exactly so we make a
post request to our server
now
there's something on our server that
hears that post request
right that here's that post request
and then knows what to do
yeah that code
is our api
api
cool there's some code on our server
that we wrote that we wrote that's on
our server that here's that request
and when it hears that request we've
coded it to do something very specific
so that code said all right if there's a
post request
right if there's a post request what i
want you to do is
when that post request came through
there was a bunch of data that came
along with that post request right
somewhere in that data that was sent
with the post request
with the post request deep in that
request body exactly there was
the value that was in that form of
biscuits so what we're going to do is
we're going to grab that value
out of the request
body
all right we're going to grab that value
out of the request body and once we have
that value
what are we going to do with that value
yeah
we're going to put it in the db we're
going to put it in our database we're
going to take that value
and put it
in
the database beautiful
and then once that value is in our
database
right once that value is in our database
we're going to
respond
we're going to respond
saying everything was okay
and that you should probably
refresh
right everything was okay
and you should probably refresh
and when that page refreshes
right when that page refreshes
what type of request have i made
just that simple act of refreshing gotta
be careful with that one the simple act
of refreshing right
makes a get request right so we have our
server
have our api code that's listening for
these requests
and we
we make that
get request
to our server
and the api code is listening it says
all right app dot get this is a little
different
a different smurf here is that get
request
right
a different
a different smurf here's that get
request
right and it's like all right that
smurfs on the block by himself they know
what to do
here's that get request right
right
here's that get request
and what does it do what do we what do
we do when we hear the refresh the get
request what's going to happen
yeah we're going to go to the database
we're going to go to our database
the smurf
is going to get
every
single thing
that is in that database right it's
going to get
oat milk it's going to get fancy bread
it's going to get this cuts
right it's going to get the oat milk
it's going to get the fancy bread it's
going to get the best cuts
all right
and once it has all those things
from the database what are we going to
do with all that data all those things
that we got from the database what are
we going to do with it
we're going to throw it into our egs
we're going to render out some egs
remember
our ejs
is a template
right it's a template
and we're gonna plug some stuff into
that template we're gonna take the
things we got from the database and
we're gonna start plugging them
into our template
and when we're done
rendering out that template when we've
taken everything that was in our
database and we've plugged it right
we've plugged it all
into that template what gets spit out of
that template what gets bit out of that
template
you all ready to work at the agency we
don't we we can we can we can you're all
ready to work at the agency we could uh
fresh coffees in the coffee machine go
for it
uh feel free to go grab you some
you deserve it
go get yourself some coffee
we'll come back
we render it out
right we render it out
we get html
right
we render out the html
and then we respond with it right
we respond
with the html
right and that's how we can see what's
on the page we're responding
with that html
right
so now we've talked about the creating
and the reading
and i want to stop here i want to see
that code i want to see the creating i
want to see the reading i want to see
the database i want to see how it's all
right
i want to see how it's all coming
together and then we'll do the updating
and deleting as well right so if you
don't have the code
the code is on our discord
exclamation point discord if you're new
around these parts right
gametech said hey newly joined how do i
catch up exclamation point 100 devs will
tell you everything you need to know
about the program that we're running
join us
amazing community to learn how to code
online all right
so
let's go ahead
and
take a look at our code here
we're going to ignore all this stuff for
right now and we're going to look at our
get request
and we're going to look at our post
requests
which one should we start with
let's do
get
or
post
hit
one minute start pull
all right i'll let you decide get her
post
that's what we'll start with your
dealer's choice well
chat's choice yeah chat's choice
bob we are voting on whether we look at
the gets or the posts first
gets winning
i think post maybe a little easier to
start with but we'll go again
all right we're we're approaching the
the minute end here
in the lead with get
post is creeping back up
the gets have it all right get one
let's go ahead and take a look at the
get first all right so
here's our get code real quick
what are some ways that i could trigger
this get request
what are some ways that could trigger my
get requests
refresh is probably the the way that
we're going to see it right now so if i
was to refresh my page on localhost 21
21 21 21 21 and i got to record that 21
21 21 21 21
hey does this work 21 21 21 21 21
hey does this work
21 21 21 21 21
[Music]
hey does this work
21 21 21 21 21
all right all right we're back we're
back we're back all right
all right we're back sorry i'm a little
too much fun
all right so we refresh the page
we refresh the page
right we refresh the page
and that makes a
get request
to our api code right let's see how our
api code is coded to hear that get
request let's take a look
here's the get requests
now i have some stuff
commented out here
this comment that code out here is if i
wanted to do like an asynchronous
function which we definitely want we're
going to move towards that but i want to
show you the slightly kind of older
school way our our lovely promised
chains right and so the the idea here is
like we'll we'll do this in the future
because it's cleaner and easier to do
but i want to show you everything right
and the async is still there it doesn't
really matter right
cool
so
we are
listening for a get request and here is
our route
why is it a forward slash like why is
the route forward slash
what is that telling us
yeah it's telling us the root
yeah it's the root
exactly the main page the root page
right so we could listen for get
requests on any of the different pages
any of the different routes but the home
page the main page the root page is
always represented with the forward
slash or is typically represented with
the forward slash so
we could have many get requests and
eventually our applications will have
dozens and dozens of get requests but
we're listening for the one on the root
the main right
great
when our code here's that get request
we're gonna do some stuff
the first thing we're doing on line 28
is we are going to our database
now above
our ap like our above like our api we
connect it to our database i'll show you
connecting to our database in a little
bit right but we can just trust that the
db
right db is holding that connection to
our database so wherever we see db we
know that we're already connected to
that database and that's what we're
talking about we're talking about the
database our mongodb database great so
we heard the get requests
we go to our database and we find the
collection
in our database called to do's
now remember our mongodb databases are
made up of collections
and inside those collections are what
what goes inside of our collections
documents nice so we have our
collections and inside of our
collections are our
documents right
and our documents
we're going to say
find
them all
so we're going to find all the documents
inside of our to-do's collection so
let's go ahead and look at our database
let's look at the to do's collection
and see all the documents that we're
going to find
so here we go this is my [__] database
right
it's not refreshed let me refresh it
just make sure that we have all the
latest information
beautiful
and we can see here that i am in
the
to do's collection right we see that
we're in the deuce collection
and here
are my
documents
that are inside
of that to do's
collection
right we can see right now right we can
see right now that there are three
documents
inside of my to do's collection so when
i'm looking at the code and i say all
right go to the database
go to the to do's collection and find
all the documents we're going to find
three documents inside of that
collection now what's something
that we can
use to hold all three of those documents
remember those documents are really just
what
so those documents are really just
objects so what's something that we can
use to hold all three of those objects
right
is an array exactly i see a lot of you
saying those documents are objects which
is correct and we're going to put them
into something that can hold all of
those objects which is an array so
that's why we say
to array
right we're saying hey
go to the database
find the seduce collection
find all the documents we found three of
them in that to do's collection and now
we're like trying to juggle them and we
we can't juggle them so we put them in
an array
that makes sense
right we went to the database we found
the right collection we found the
documents and we put them in an array
cool
we put them in bill gates toaster got it
exactly man we
we should i wouldn't do that i wouldn't
i've been
trying like i i i like when i set my
mind to something i do it right and so i
really want to do more like shorts
content because i i think that's where
i could add some value to folks and so
i've just been consuming
way too much tick-tock and youtube
shorts and stuff like that so my brain's
a little mushy
but
i think it'd be really funny to do like
videos
that were just like our memes so like
we're teaching but we're only teaching
using our memes right
like
we put it into bill gates toaster
right we didn't get got we went and got
right we carried some boats and logs we
put it inside the toaster and just just
like
this 100 memes that only we would get
but it would make sense right the smurfs
heard it right like there's we got
enough to do it
all right
cool
so we went to our database we went to
the to-do's collection we found all the
to-do's all the documents in that
collection we put it in an array
and
what we're going to do
is
pass
that value
that array
that array that is holding right that
array that is holding all of the to do's
we're gonna pass it into this then
underneath the variable data and this is
where it gets a little it gets a little
tricky right does two array return a
promise right well let me ask that's a
good question to ask
does this return a promise
good question
does that return a promise
we're gonna say yes
and um
we can see that it does
because we got the then chain right we
got the then we got the catch
right and so technically underneath the
hood that's kind of what's happening we
don't have to know that though we don't
have to worry about that at all like
let's not like get let's not get deep
into it but what we're gonna have happen
is that this is going to return an array
and that array is going to be held in
the variable data or the the
the parameter data so wherever we s yes
because the documentation says it does
exactly
wherever we see data right wherever i
see data inside of this den
what is data
it's the array
all right that's the biggest jump i
think it's where i lose the most people
so i'm going to say it again
right i'm going to say it again
we went to the database
we went to the to-do's collection
we found all three documents right all
three documents in that to do's
collection
and we put all three of those documents
into an array
so now we have an array holding all
three of those documents we said that
those documents are really just objects
we have an array holding three objects
and we pass that array
into the parameter of data so wherever i
see
data
it's really just that array holding
those objects
cool
now we got some other complicated stuff
that's happening here
i'm going to ignore this line for a
second i'm going to ignore this line
here
and this line here just for a second
just to take a look at line 32
take a look at this line
so i went to the database i found all
the to-do's i put them into an array
and now i have to take those objects and
what am i going to do with those objects
that i got from the database right my
objects are sitting in an array what am
i going to do with those objects what am
i going to pass those objects to
yeah
i'm going to pass all those objects
into my template
into my ejs right so that's what this
line here is saying this line is saying
hey
i am passing data
into
my
ejs template
right i am passing
all of those objects that are inside of
my array
into
that template
now
i've given
that array of objects a name
that array of objects that i am passing
into my template i've given them a name
and what is the name that i've given
them
items exactly i've given it the name of
items
so when i am looking
in my ejs template
i'm not going to see the word data
anymore
i'm going to see the word items
and wherever i see items that is my
array
of documents
cool
so
we went to the database we found the
news collection we found all the
documents in that collection we put them
in an array
we pass those
documents that are inside of our array
into our ejs
under the name
of items
why rename it
this pattern
has more use the deeper we get into this
stuff right
it's a key value pair we could have we
could have kept it data and been fine
but getting used to this idea of key
value pairs being passed in
is helpful it can help with readability
there are some benefits of doing it this
way
but for now we don't have to big brain
it we can just say all right
we gave it a new name of items that's it
went to the database
found the collection found all three
documents in that collection put it into
an array now we're going to pass that
array
into our ejs template with the name of
items so if i'm ever
looking in this ejs template and i see
items i know that it is my array of
documents
cool
so let's look at that ejs template
views
views from the six
running through the six with my
wolves
i was running through this
with my wheels
all right
cool
here we are here is our ejs template
here's my egs template i'm gonna see
some things in here
i'm seeing items items
items items
when i see items what is that really
what is items holding what is items
holding
i was running through this six with my
code
that's great
it's our array of data it's our array
holding all of our objects that came
from the [__] database exactly let's go
we out here learning so wherever i see
items
it is really my array
of three
objects
right wherever i see items it's really
my array of three
objects
so what am i doing in line 23
what what what am i setting up here
i'm setting up a for loop
that's going to run how many times
yeah i'm iterating over the array all
right
how many times is this loop going to run
yeah it's going to run three times
because items.length
right if items is my array
holding all of my objects and there are
three objects inside of it
right and that means that this loop is
going to run three times
and the cool thing is
each time it runs
i is going to go up by one right so the
very first time this runs
we have this item zero here
this items zero here
right this item's
zero here
and item zero is going to enable us to
grab the first what out of the array
exactly going to enable us to get that
first element out of our array our first
object out of the array
and once i have that first object
i can access all the properties on that
object let's look
at the first object that we know would
be in our array where can i go look to
see the first object that would be in
our array
[__] exactly mongodb let's go back and
take a look
here we go
here we go all right so we have get oat
milk
and if we look here is the first
the first
object
right the first object
in our database
and so that's the first object that
would come out of items right item zero
is this get oat milk right we can see
that it has
an id property
a thing property and a completed
property
right
so if i did items zero
thing
what am i gonna get
if i do item zero thing what do i get
get oat milk
all y'all getting oat milk ads
all y'all getting oatmeal cats now
oatly gonna be all up in your twitch
feed
[Laughter]
y'all got got
you know what
i was in the 100 devs boardroom right
and i was trying to get new sponsors to
help the community and so
uh we we've came to conclusion if oatly
you want to sponsor
any of the major oat milk manufacturers
we'll take it to the board we'll we'll
get you involved let us know i'm happy
to to help you come to the 100 devs
agency if you need help with your your
your your web presence we got you right
so just saying
all right
now
the first
document
the first document that came out of this
this array would have an id property a
thing property and a completed property
so let's go back and look at our ejs
right
let's ignore like this complicated bit
right here and let's just look right
here
items zero thing
right
items zero thing would excuse me would
give us
get oat milk
right items zero thing would give us get
oat milk
that's the first right we have three
it's the first
document
and it has a thing property so if we're
really talking about an array of objects
right an array of objects
this zeroth index
would be this document right here
right would be that document right there
and so when we are looking at our ejs
that first document
item zero thing
would actually be
get
oat
milk
right would be get oat milk
beautiful
and what we're doing is we're putting
get oat milk
into a span
and when we put it into a span
that's what enables us to see it
inside of the dom here
right
i'm still a little confused about the
thing property
i made it up
all right when it came time
to put
the values into the database because
remember we decided to do the get first
you chose the git first
you chose to get first right when we put
all that data into our database we chose
to give it the thing property that's it
we could have called it lord of the
rings right and it would have been lord
of the rings get oat milk right that we
just chose thing
okay
now is that a good naming convention
absolutely not
bad naming convention but i threw up
tina where were being bad as you're
writing bad code right so
we saw that items zero
dot thing was get oat milk
what would items
what on the next run of this loop i will
be one right i will be one so what would
items
one dot thing give us
yeah that would totally give us
fancy bread right the next object in the
lovely array
that we got back from our mongodb would
give us get fancy bread and then we
could also say
all right items
two dot thing would give us what
items two dot thing would give us what
we can take a look
this cuts right would give us this cuts
right this cut all right
this cut would would be the third thing
that would show up and we can take a
look and we can see like all right we
got like a span
it's inside of an li
so each time this loop runs it's going
to run once for each item right it's
going to run once for each item that's
in our collection and each time it runs
it's building an li and that li has a
span in it and that span has the value
that we got out of the database
right
cool
choco pie with the prime thank you
missed you too i appreciate that
all right
uh somebody said wait isn't items.length
three
it is
right
um it is so what what happens
what happened here
so we're on two right so we did zero one
two
right we did zero one two
and now we're at the end of our loop and
we try to add
uh 1 so we're at 3
is
3 less than 3
no so our loop stops
right our loop stops and we never get to
the three good question good question
because it's the less than right you add
the less than there cool
all right now there is something
slightly more complicated happening here
right there's something slightly more
complicated happening here and it's this
conditional
that is inside of the li
it's this conditional that's inside of
the li now what is happening inside of
this conditional what is this
conditional helping me to do
well what is it doing
it looks like it's the same thing we're
saying
all right add a span here
or add a span here
it has the same content in each of the
spans so why have a conditional there
yeah
it is the
giving it of the completed class so i'm
saying hey
if this property is true
then i want the span i build to have the
completed class
if
this value is not true
i don't want it the span just doesn't
have the completed class so i'm either
building a span that has the completed
class or i'm building a span that
doesn't have it and if we look at our
css go to our public folder go to our
css go to our style.css if we look at
our style.css the completed class gives
a gray color and a line through
right
all right and so eventually
what i can do
eventually what i can do
as as this page
is building
i can always just check
hey has the task have the value of
completed or does it not because if it
does we're going to make it have the
line through and if it has been
completed it's just the normal span
right
we're just toggling it
now
somebody said when do i know to include
this in javascript or something like
this
we're we're still kind of in the early
stages of seeing some of this more
advanced stuff
but the thing i'm asking myself is
i want to store this over time
right if it was just client-side
javascript that was doing this stuff
what problem would i run into if i was
just keeping track of this stuff by a
client-side javascript what would happen
yeah no data persistence every single
refresh
right every single refresh
poof i wouldn't know what was completed
or not completed
so where am i actually storing
whether or not a task has been completed
where am i storing that
yeah i'm storing that in the database we
could use local storage i see some folks
throwing out local storage that's true
i am storing whether or not the task has
been completed in the database and it's
just one very simple thing
if the task has been completed
i change this from false to true
right
and if it's not complete uh if it is
complete sorry if it's not complete it
just stays false right so if i have to
complete the task it stays false if i
have completed the task i change it to
true and this sounds like a really good
case for what type of request to our
server what type of request to our
servers gonna handle this like completed
or not
yeah our put or our update exactly our
put or update's gonna handle this stuff
cool
alrighty so
that's everything for the get right so
we let's go back and take a peek at this
we
went to the database
we found the to do's collection we found
all the documents in the todos
collection we put all three of those
documents into an array
then we pass that array into the
variable or the parameter data
we can see that we then pass that array
into our ejs template
underneath the
name of items
so wherever i see
items inside of my ejs
wherever i see items inside of my ejs
that's really just the array that's
holding all my objects uh since there
are three objects in my array this
lovely for loop in our ejs is going to
run three times
and then i'm gonna build an li for each
time this runs and i'm either gonna
build a span that has the class of
complete it making it like gray and
strike through or i'm gonna build a span
that's just normal
right and so whether or not it's
completed or not just happens has to do
by looking at that document or that
object and seeing if it has a completed
class of true we'll handle that
completed or not when we get to the
update and that'll be a little bit
further down the line
cool
questions while we're here about the get
oh where's the response coming from
that's great so
once
when i say render like i just highlight
this piece here what is getting rendered
what is getting rendered when i say when
it says render ejs what does that mean
what is b what is being rendered out
yeah the html so you can think of all
this rendering winding up being an html
file
great
and what the heck do i do with that html
file
i respond
i
respond i respond
i respond with the html file
i respond with the html file okay
got that cool
somebody said does this thing work
my version works your version doesn't
if you just clone down this repo it
won't work because you haven't connected
your database
hey does this work
no
you would have to do like your mpm
install you have to create your env file
all of that all those steps can be found
in the what
all those steps are at the end of our
what
at the end of our slides
the slides have like the step by steps
on how you're going to do that um but
somebody actually submitted a pull
request
uh for an updated readme that i'll
approve the pull request after class
that had like more detailed instructions
on how to get it running so
i love that i love to see it community
taught folks community taught
thank you
cool all right so we respond with that
html file that came from the ejs and
that
is how we see everything
that is now on the page in the dom
questions before we take our break
we're going to walk through how to set
up the env file we're going to walk
through um how to do the rest of this
yep
minewolf already did it too mine wolf
can you dm me the video where you walk
through that just so i can link you
after class please
someone please tell me to make my vs
code smaller you mean like the text
you can change the font size inside your
settings
is the database to do's and api
it's part of our api the api is all the
pieces right
the api is the the get
the posts
the put the delete like all the code
that we wrote to hear
what's happening in our application
right
all the code i wrote to here like those
requests and then the stuff that i do
that's our api like we get to write the
code that hears those requests and we
get to decide what happens all of that
is our api
oh if you have my code there's probably
the vs code
settings.json and you'll notice that i
have my editor set to 42 and my terminal
set to 42 so that folks can see it
easier
on the screen when i'm streaming
but you can just change that size or do
it in your settings
delay that folder that folder should
technically be in my what
i just forgot it
that folder should go into my what
my git ignore yeah so when i when i uh
push changes i'll put it in my git
ignore so it doesn't pop up
all right any other one more question
before we take our break
db's like i got this seven minutes on
the timer
cool all right uh get ignored somebody
said let's get ignored get ignore is a
file
that you can put the things that you
don't want to be pushed to github
right so
i don't want to push my node module
folders because it's typically huge
and i don't want to push my env file
because that's where all my secrets are
right and i don't mean like my deep dark
secrets i don't want anybody to know
about i mean my like
my connection to my database or stuff
like that
so i put that in my env file
i'm going to show you how that works uh
if we don't get to it tonight we'll do
that on thursday i'll walk through how
it works and all that stuff
but
i don't want those going up to github so
people can't can't yank them
i keep my emotional issues in there
all right folks let's take our break
should we do leak code over code wars
uh i think you should do code wars until
you feel pretty comfortable
um with code wars and then once we hit
the hunt we switch delete code so
for folks that are like data structures
algorithms ah right we were like data
structured algorithms
ah we're not there yet i'm i'm gonna
we're gonna do daily data structures and
algorithms prep i'm going to walk you
from
like very simple code
to another coding challenge to another
coding test another coding challenge and
through these coding challenges we're
going to build up from kind of like no
data structures and algorithms knowledge
all the way through like hash mapping
with the best of them right and so we
did it last cohort and it was my it was
probably my one of my favorite parts of
the whole cohort was just like being in
those discord voice calls working
through the code together and so we're
going to do that you're going to work
from
like just very basic
like functions all the way up to the
complex data structures algorithms that
you'll need for your your interviews so
we're just not at that point yet it's
coming for now i think code wars are
good because they're easier to get into
uh you can do one a day but if you're
already done i just like somebody's
tweet i'm gonna retweet it later
they did all the eight keys like there's
no eight cues left so if you've done all
the eight cues you're like done the
seven cues like you're halfway through
and you want a little bit more of a
challenge start throwing in some of the
leak codes as well
like i'm asking you to do a coding
challenge every day
you don't have to make it hard on
yourself do the easy ones for right now
right like do the easy ones get the
habits the important part the whole part
of this right is the habit right
remember we are going to be software
engineers for our career right and so we
want to we want to develop these habits
so we can do the heavier lifting when it
comes to data structures algorithms leak
codes stuff like that right we want to
be able to carry these these concepts
into like our day-to-day life
as a software engineer so when you're
working on
code at the agency these data structures
numbers might pop up and so it's not
something that you want as like a
one-off thing right develop the habit
now of doing the coding challenges so
that by the time we get to the hunt you
feel comfortable ramping up your data
structures and algorithms knowledge and
then that knowledge stays with you like
once you
understand
certain concepts
right once you understand certain
concepts they just don't they don't
leave you as a software engineer
once you understand i'm going to say
hashmap again but once you understand
hashmaps like the the funny thing that a
lot of my students do is every problem
solved with a hashmap for like two weeks
right like i don't care it could be like
a css problem and they're like how do i
hashmap this right like
um
and so
those those like it's it's like a it's
like a it's like it's like a level of in
i don't want to say enlightenment but
it's like it's like like a whole new
level unlocks in your brain
once you start to add these data
structures and algorithms to your
repertoire and we're just we just don't
need them yet so
don't
burn out and don't
push yourself if you don't need to
right they're really fun they are really
fun cool
all right
let's keep pushing here so we did the
get first now it's time to do the post
uh so let's go back and take a look at
our post
and i'm going to add something
to the to-do list
and so let's go ahead and
oh yeah
hold on one second let me pull that up
there was a raffle today
so i am going to grab those responses
from the raffle real quick
all right let me pull up the
raffle
raffle names
name picker
all right so we have
819 people that opened the uh
that opened the email and filled out the
the form for the raffle um
one of the
the
interesting things i find myself doing
uh is kind of
i have a lot of time where
i only have one hand
because i am holding baby with the other
i've gotten really great at like
responding to like emails i've gotten
really great at um
like even like doing some mild coding
uh but a lot of times i'm just by myself
like
in a dark room holding my child
and they're knocked out of sleep right
and so i was like this would be a really
good time for coffee chats to keep
myself awake
to help some folks that may be
struggling with uh things as we get into
the hunt uh and so to help me stay awake
and to
uh help
folks that might need it i'm gonna open
up some coffee chats i'm just gonna do
i'm gonna go slow but coffee chats are
one of my favorite things to do with uh
last cohort i really want to incorporate
them uh with this cohort so
uh the people that win this
uh raffle will be the first pers people
that i will um do coffee chats with so
let's just pick three for now
and
uh
you'll get a message from me on twitch
about setting up the coffee chat and
we'll make it work so three for now pick
random names
all right
chapel zrt
and james congrats on the win uh you'll
get a message from me on um
twitch uh i'll try and do it after
stream but um probably tomorrow if i if
i can't write after stream so uh you'll
get a message from me let's do our
coffee chat congratulations on the win
let me put this over here so i don't
forget it
and um
we'll start the coffee chats up again
back in the day i was doing like
like 10 20 a day i don't think we're
gonna get up to that level but i do want
to incorporate them back in so super
excited to start talking to some of you
all one-on-one happy to talk about
anything that you want to talk about
sometimes folks want to um
uh just kind of
get some help with crafting their story
or just want to shoot the [__] that's
cool with me uh folks that have redeemed
the
portfolio reviews and things like that
through the channel points i'm gonna
start reaching out to you all now that
i'm back in the mix okay
all right so let's get back into this um
let's get back into the mix with this
to-do list and so let's go ahead and do
our post how am i going to
how am i going to submit this post
thanks grandma exactly thanks graham
how am i going to do this post
yeah i'm gonna submit the form
yeah i'm gonna do submit the form and
when i submit the form it's going to
make a post to my server so let's say we
put in something let's put something in
here
put in coffee because we were talking
about coffee chats i click submit when i
click submit i make a post request
to my server so
post request leaves my client side
goes to my server side
on the server
is my api code part of that api code was
an app
dot post
and where does the route come from
where does the route for the post come
from
yeah if we look at the form
let's use our inspector
if we look at the form
there is a
action
on the form sorry it's kind of hard with
the stuff on top of it there's an action
on this form
called add to do
so that's going to wind up being the
route for this post
request coming from this form the action
is what express which is handling our
api is going to listen for to know which
post we're talking about because we
could have 20 different forms on this
page that are all making posts right and
so the action exactly grizzly is the
route in this case so
let's go ahead and draw that out again
so we had uh the post requests
that made it to our server
server had some api code
right
it's beautiful and then we had an app
dot post
that had the route of add
to do
and that came from the action
that was on the form now when i sent
this post request
to the server what went along with that
post request
yeah that request body goes along with
the post and part of that request body
is like we're studying a lot of data i
showed it before i'll show it again but
a lot of data goes with these requests
and in that request is going to be the
request
body and part of that request body is
going to be what was inside that form so
in that request body there's going to be
some coffee
right that was what was inside that form
uh in that request body we're going see
we're gonna see coffee and how do we
know
which input we're dealing with like how
do i know like what if this form was
like
40 inputs deep
how would i know
which input i cared about like i just
want the thing to do input i don't i
don't want any other the inputs that
could be in our form
yeah
we inspect
we're gonna see that our input
has a name property
of to do item that's how i can
differentiate between all the different
inputs that may be in a form is by
looking at their names so the names on
the input so this has to do item so what
i'm going to wind up looking for is rec
dot body
dot
to do
item
right that's how what i'm going to look
for and in that
to do item input was the word coffee and
so that coffee got sent along with my
post
cool now
once the request makes it to the server
and the smurf that's on duty to hear the
post request right the smurf here's the
post request what's the first thing my
smurf is going to do
what's the first thing my smear we all
know what coffee means
yo
[Laughter]
oh i got a vip hold on
where's where they at
oh you all went too fast
y'all went too fast
there we go
all right maxwell wins gets vip you make
me giggle out loud
on stream you know what that does
oh
all right
coffee chats whole new meaning
where's dab
shout out dab
where's dad when we need them coffee
chats have a whole new meeting
all right
where are y'all finding these coffee
chats
all right
leon's coffee jack gonna be lit
all right so we made a post request
along with that post request was all the
information that was in that request
body including that word coffee that was
in our form
right
and all that gets sent to our server the
first thing that our smurf hears right
right the very first thing that our
smurf hears is that post request and the
first thing it's going to do is get the
value right it's going to grab that
value of coffee so it's going to grab
that value from the request body it's
going to look at the request body
not to do
item that came along with the request
and we know that that is
coffee
so once it's grabbed that value of
coffee what's the next thing the smurf
is going to do once it has that value
yeah
all right sage i see you
is going to add it to the database right
it's going to add that value to the
database so we're going to go to our
database
we're going to add that value to the
add to
db
and then once we're done adding that
value of coffee to the database what are
we going to do
yeah we're going to respond
we're going to respond
and we're going to say everything went
okay
we're going to respond thing everything
went okay and that you should probably
refresh
all right
you should probably refresh
cool
and once we refresh
what's gonna happen
once once this refreshes what's gonna
happen
what type of request
what type of request are we gonna make
yeah we're going to make a get request
right and that get request is going to
go to the database
it's going to find all the documents
that are in our database but now instead
of there being three documents in our
database there's going to be
four
right there's gonna be four
all right and that's why we're seeing
four items
in our to-do list
cool all right let's break down the code
uh behind what's happening with this
post
let me refresh the the db here um
cool
you see that there are four in here it
makes a little bit smaller
well that there's one of four so one two
three four
documents now in our uh to do's
collection cool all right so
let's look at this post
all right
the post app.post on the ad to do route
one more time chat where did the route
come from
where did the route come from
yeah
that route comes from the action
on the form
that made the post request right comes
from the action
on the form that made the post requests
beautiful so
we could have
plenty of different forms that could all
be making requests and we could
differentiate between the different
forms
based on
the different actions that each form had
and then our api set up to hear a post
on that particular forms action
cool so the smurf here's that post
request come through
and we go to our database that we're
already connected to
we find the to do's collection and the
reason why mongodb is so beautiful is we
don't have to big brain and we can we
can just go ahead and say insert one
we don't have to learn some fancy
querying language we don't have to learn
some some dusty documentation that we
have to read through now you want to put
something into the database insert one
into the database
i love it
baddies friendly
exactly baddies friendly all right so we
went to our database we found the
to-do's collection we insert something
into that collection
why does this why does this look like
we're inserting an object
why does this look like we're inserting
an object
because we are exactly
documents are just objects right and so
we're going to insert that document into
our to-do's collection we're inserting
that object into our to-do's collection
and we can tell right off the jump
what properties
that document is going to have because
we set them up here
right
this now is going every single document
that goes into this collection
is going to have a thing property
and a completed property
i could change these to whatever the
heck i want right i could change this to
great
rainbow
unicorn
attack
right
and now when i insert a document right
when i insert a document into my
database
right
it's going to have a property of rainbow
unicorn attack
so instead of it saying
thing
it would say rainbow unicorn attack
right and i could change this
to to complete it to something else i
could change that to
i can't spell it pretend i spelled out
zaboomafoo just percent just pretend i
spelled out zaboomafoo right
i could put zab in there right
right and that would work and then each
of my documents
inside of my collection would have the
property of rainbow unicorn attack and
it would have the property of zaboomafoo
total control of what we put into our
mongodb
right
but that's not really
best practice
so i'm gonna leave it at thing for now
we could probably find a better name for
thing
maybe like to do item or something like
that and complete it right
is this how we make user accounts and
such
bev it's going to be the exact same
process
when we have user authentication and
we're storing those users into our
database we're going to have a
collection called users and each user is
going to be a document in our collection
the only thing that would be a little
bit different is that we're going to do
something called hashing so we're not
storing their password like in plain
text in the document but it's the same
same idea whatever type of data we're
trying to store we're just going to make
a collection for that data
right and we're going to have a document
for each piece that we care about
cool
uh has anyone seen a good article
explaining schemas we're not there yet
we're gonna we're gonna get into mvc and
then we're gonna talk about once we have
a basic idea of mvc like model view
controller we'll get really and we'll
get into like schemas and stuff like
that in depth at first you don't really
have to really worry about it when
you're first building but over time it
makes it way more maintainable to have
that type of stuff
cool
all right hey just started can you start
at the beginning uh catch the vods the
vod is always immediately available
after stream and then all of our classes
make their way over to youtube as well
exclamation point youtube if you get
stuck or have questions come to our
discord exclamation point discord this
is clicking more tonight glad to hear
that fairy i'm excited for you
good for all of us but that's great to
hear that it's clicking more for you
all right
all righty so
we had that to-do request sorry that
post request that came along
when that smurf heard the post request
we went to our database we found the
to-do's collection we inserted a new
document a new object into that
collection and that object had a thing
property and a completed property now
the completed property we hard code it
right there's there's no way that we
could change what this was like we just
hard coded right we just hard code it
false
so it doesn't matter what the user
submitted in the form it doesn't matter
what they did every single document that
we're creating is going to have a
completed property of false right so
there right now there's no way for
somebody to like submit a to do that's
already been completed we've just hard
coded it however
the thing
we can grab
from the form right so
when that post request comes through
right
um
we can grab
from the request body the information
they sent with that form
right so if we look at our ejs
we can see
that our input
has the name of to do item
when this form submits a request
that request
body is going to be sent all the
information that was inside that form is
going to be sent and we can join it we
can do request
dot body and grab the value that was in
that
grab the value that was inside of that
input by using the name right so we see
it has the name of to do item we can
grab that value should we want it rec
dot body dot to do item will give us the
value that comes out of the input
cool
let's uh let's see if we can um console
log this actually
so let's go ahead and just do a
uh
console.log
and we're gonna do
we're to do rec i'm sorry i'm so used to
shorting it with wreck
request stop
well let's just do the whole request
and then let's console log
the uh request.body just so we can see
it
cool
so i'm going to
show my server
restart it
all right port 21 21 21 21
all right
and let's go back here and refresh
all right and let's add something to our
uh stream to-do list
watch
mine
will stream tomorrow
tomorrow
there we go beautiful
cool so i'm going to submit it
and so i now have on my list watch mine
will stream tomorrow
and if i
look at my
it's gonna be wild if i look at my
terminal here
look at all this crap that was sent with
the request
i'm not even going to scroll all the way
up but there's just a lot of crap here
right
all that stuff is being sent
all that stuff is being sent with the
requests right look at all those
chickens right all that stuff is being
sent with that request
and what i was able to do was then to
just look at the body part like we can
see that the body is here like here's
the body that was part of like th this
up was the request
all that crap is set with every single
request that you're making let's just
think about that
right you're on your phone
every single request you're making
sending all that data whizzing around
the internets through the wires through
the tubes around us
going across the ocean going out through
starling satellites right like all this
stuff
is being sent with every request
every request
every request right and we're able to
pick apart the piece that we care about
pick apart the piece that we care say
that five times pick a part the piece
pick a part piece
uh request.body right so we just grabbed
we yinked the body
and we can see part of that body was the
to do item right the to-do item
and the value
of watch my wolf tomorrow
right so we were able to grab that value
that we wanted
right
out
and then we can go a level deeper and
say to do item like i want
from that request body i want the to do
item property and that is what gave me
watch mine wolf tomorrow
right
we're able to dig through and grab the
pieces we want out of these requests i'm
going to delete these
so we don't have the request each time
blowing up my terminal let me restart
real quick all right 21 21 20. and so
we're able to grab the piece that we
want and we're then able to create a new
document right
create a new document in our collection
that has a thing property and a
completed property and now we know
what's also going to be stored so if we
go and look at our mongodb
and we refresh
you can see at the end we have a new
document
thing with watch mind with tomorrow
completed false
can you talk a bit about preventing
adding duplicates to the db we're not
there yet
we're not there yet uh there are many
ways that we can do that down the line
it's not something we want to think
about right now um there's tons yeah
there's upsert there's all that fun
stuff we can get into
it's just it's just it's a little too
much for right now um i'm happy to do it
like during an office hours or something
like that where you can go a little bit
deeper i just don't want to confuse
people right now but yeah so we'll get
into it and eventually one of the
easiest one of the things that we're
going to eventually do
is um
right now
we are
actually
like modifying and making changes
by
grabbing stuff from the dom
what does each
individual document in our database have
what does each individual document in
our database have
it has an id
so to kind of answer your question
eventually we won't really be using the
data itself to find stuff in the
database or anything like that we'll be
using the ids
and ids will make it so that we can um
edit individual things right
to be able to make sure we're targeting
that document and only that document and
then there'll be some other strategies
we can use to stop duplicates as well
all right
questions about the post oh sorry we did
the post right let's finish it up we
added the document to our to do's
collection
that then fires
i have a nice little handy dandy console
log so i can see that something happened
and then my response to the client is to
do what
my response to the client is to do what
my response is to refresh
exactly my response is to refresh when i
refresh i trigger a what
when i refresh i trigger a what
i get exactly a trigger uh get request
wonderful
wonderful wonderful wonderful
all right questions about the get in the
post
i know we're spending a lot of time on
this
um but it's really important
this is honestly like the most important
stuff that we'll cover because if you
understand how to do a get a post and
then a put and a delete
you can build whatever you want and it's
super powerful so if you're if you're
already leagues ahead with this right
and you're feeling really comfortable
with this stuff great hop and discord
help folks that are little that are that
are struggling with it a little bit
right um
and if you're if you're just catching up
tonight that's great like that's what i
want you to be i want i want this stuff
to make sense we're going to spend
significant time on it because it's just
that important once you get crud down
the world is yours
can you explain the add to do route
again sure major so the ad to do like
how do i know what form is making the
post
well if i look at my actual forms they
have an action called to do and very
clearly a method called post so when
this form submits like when i either
click the submit button or hit enter
it's going to make a post request to my
server
right and how do i differentiate between
which form is making the request well
it's the action
the action is what i use to make the
route for this post if i had another
form with a different action i could
have a different post for that
i was having a lot of trouble finding
the crumbs going back and forth between
server and egs but tonight's been so
helpful for that that's good to hear
um some concerns about how like we're
editing the database yeah like right now
like our
our updates are like really they're
they're not like how we do it eventually
we're gonna be using the ids um that'll
make it a little bit easier we'll be
sanitizing all that fun stuff we're just
not there yet let's get the crud basics
down and then we'll do all the stuff
that makes our applications a little bit
more robust yeah
uh what does it mean that uh complete it
false
i want to keep track
of whether or not i have completed the
items on my to-do list so i got oat milk
yesterday i got fancy bread yesterday i
got biscuits yesterday i got coffee
today so all those things are already
done or
completed
right so the way i'm keeping track of
whether or not they are completed i can
actually show you
um when i look at how they're all false
right now
right but as soon as i refreshed my view
of the database
you're gonna see that all of them are
now marked true
except for watch mine will stream
tomorrow
because that hasn't happened yet i just
haven't marked it as true yet it will be
true but i haven't marked this true yet
right and so that that completed is just
is this what i'm using to keep track of
whether or not the user has marked that
value complete and when i insert my
documents i'm just hard-coding it
completed of false and eventually when
we get to our updates right when we get
to our updates we'll use the update to
change this from false to true in the
database or
what we can do is if i click it again
the complete it goes back to
false
and so then it just shows like normal
is manga to be reliable for productions
or just for learning purposes super
reliable for production lots of really
big companies use it
effectively i think it's great for
mvps i think it's great for simple apps
you're trying to get out the door
my speed using mongodb is like next
level
for a lot of my like more robust apps i
i use postgres but i'm no stranger to
using mongodb for stuff in production i
love it
um
some people some people have quirks with
it but i'm a i'm a person that likes to
get [__] done
uh and if i can get it done faster
that's always a good thing for me i'm
not gonna try and
write the best most performant code in
for an mvp you know um
can always refactor later refactorings
for closers
but for teaching i like teaching with
mongodb because it helps it's way more
visual you can see what the heck's
happening and yeah we'll do a little bit
of postgres at the end
um a little bit ahead are we going to
learn passwords are we going to are we
going to use something that
hashes them for us yes
anything that has to do with like
passwords or user login we don't want to
get got so we're going to use tools off
the shelf that do it for us
um b crypt things like that right we're
we're not going to ever write that from
scratch unless like you go do your phd
in cyber security or something like it's
just not it's not worth it
my husband works for a bank and they use
mongodb yeah it's used all over the
place it's a really wonderful tool
and that's all coming down the pipeline
folks where like i said we're going to
add mvc on top of this then we're going
to add user authentication on top of
this and then
we'll add
new ways of doing the front end
basically with react on top of this we
got some other fun stuff that we'll do
some other projects that will build with
all the pieces uh and then we'll move
into our data structures and algorithms
[Laughter]
major said shroud is live got to go all
right me too
[Laughter]
hey
[Music]
let's go good morning good afternoon
good evening no matter where you're
coming from hope you all are doing well
hello is rufio with the raid let's go
rufio rufio rufio rufio
what is going on everybody
welcome back happy thursday we online
let's go
we online
hey rufio thank you for the raid i
appreciate stream team pulling in huh i
love the stream team folks you just
gotta love it
makes me so happy to see the raids makes
me so happy to see
all the hundred devs community hanging
out uh even when we're not live on
tuesdays and thursdays it's it's
wonderful to see rufio fox my wolf gotta
love it
we outside we online hey everybody
welcome back we got some crud to finish
we gotta finish this api cause we gotta
get the mvc and authentication because
once we finish the mvc and the
authentication the world's ours but
whatever the heck we want nobody can
stop us let's go
yo
indifferent in the house a different
ghost how you been man how you been good
to see you thank you so much
for being here hope you're doing well
it's good to see you
all right everybody
we
[Laughter]
we got to get we're getting right into
it
slides are the same from last class so
don't worry if you have the slides
you're ready to go if you need the
slides exclamation point slides they're
really just a tool for us to think and
move through our code together
we're going to add the updating the
delay tang we're gonna look at all the
glue a lot of folks are kind of asking
questions about like the env files and
stuff like that so we're gonna see all
that come together we're gonna make sure
you understand all the bits and bobs of
the to-do list then you got some
homework which is to look at the mvc
version of this code i updated it on
discord so you have that take a peek
you have a video to watch on mvc and you
have to finish the traversing media
course if you have not already so you
got a action-packed weekend ahead of you
uh my wolf will be doing their office
hours on sunday as well they sent me a
message so you got some extra help if
you need it as you're doing the homework
and then next week
next week
the mvc
oh the authentication oh i can't tell
you like it's it's super powers it's
super powers you are about to unlock
some of the most amazing superpowers you
will ever unlock in your life the idea
to build an app that can create read
update and delete after today you'll be
able to do all those pieces you'll have
the to-do list to start with whenever
you want to build that and by the end of
next week you'll be adding mvc and
authentication like what
i love it so i'm glad you're all here to
to to partake to get into it uh to work
through this in detail so we can see it
ask all of our questions and then we're
going to start picking up the pace a
little bit because we got to get through
the mvc we got to get the authentication
we got to build some apps and then we
got to get on the hunt
i met with uh blah yesterday
i don't know if they're ready for this
blow i don't know if they're ready
uh for for
for
for huntober
what
huntober
we got a lot that we're planning for you
a lot of fun stuff that we're going to
get into i i
we're planning
me and blob i'm putting in work
you ain't ready but we're going to get
you there
all right so
as always as always if you got questions
i got answers always like to give folks
a few seconds to get in here none of my
lights are on what am i doing
hold on
wait a minute there we go
this is dark mode
exactly there we go
there we go i need my my beauty light
it smooths things out you know
all right
anything to catch up on if it's my first
time yeah you got about 44 other classes
to catch up on uh you can do exclamation
point discord uh and when you join that
we have a catch-up crew that you can
join i can do exclamation point youtube
and see all of the past 44 videos of our
cohort 2 playlists
there we go
all right
i'll do another couple of questions
before we get started we're just getting
right into the crud tonight so we're not
even we're just going to skip right to
crud so let's give folks another minute
or two to get in here i'm going to
answer some questions and we're right
into it
i loved um
we saw something the ketchup crew was
doing which i thought was really neat uh
they they created a thread for the month
like if you're starting in august you
joined that thread uh so that's
something we're going to make official
uh blonde
we were talking about that yesterday
about like having a specific thread with
some extra goodies in there so that each
month as folks are starting in the
ketchup crew they have like a place to
latch on and if you go faster you join a
different thread if you go slow down you
join a different thread and so we're
gonna help organize that a little bit
yeah some some some good changes uh
coming to discord because we made we're
a discord partner now which is it's
actually not super easy to get um i
actually think that was the heart like
one of the harder ones to get
because we're now twitch partners
youtube partners and
uh
discord partners which is pretty cool so
you know no big deal
let's go
all right
we don't get got we go i'm thinking of
doing a hundred days of code and i'm
catching up would i stitch to myself if
i do the challenge because a recruiter
seeing um so what i say is like once
you're ready for the hunt right like
once you're ready for the hunt you kind
of chill out the stuff you do on twitter
no recruiters like digging through like
months of your twitter history to like
see oh they did 100 days of code also
anyone can do 100 days of code like you
don't have to be
um
like new you could be like senior and
picking up a different language or
something like that so the only thing i
say is if you're going to be public
about your learning journey that's one
of the best things you could ever do
because you get encouragement you get
other folks that are that are willing to
help and support you and then once
you're like really ready for the hunt
you start kind of smoothing stuff out on
your social profiles but i'm going to
help you with that we're going to bring
up some examples too like when i tell
you i'm going to get you ready for the
hunt i'm going to get you ready for the
hunt right there's a a lot of a lot of
stuff that
past 100 devs folks have done that
really moved the needle and helping them
to get a job and it's a lot of stuff
that's not really out there it's really
hard to kind of come across this
information because not a lot of people
have been like on the ground
helping hundreds of people get jobs at
in different places locations stuff like
that so there's a lot of stuff that i've
picked up and
i've been privileged to pick up because
i've been doing this for 10 years i try
to bake into a few classes
and so we'll get you there but we're not
really ready for it yet i wouldn't
stress about it
building in public learning in public is
one of the best things you can do
schrute said your resume helped me get a
job hey congrats that's good to hear
the resume is lit some people like
people don't get it right
there's a system
and
if you don't if you don't
do the system
the stuff by themselves often doesn't
work
uh so like every once in a while the
resume will go like viral on twitter and
they're like ah it doesn't like the
robots aren't able to pick up this like
specific thing in the resume i'm like
yeah because if a robot is looking at
your resume you've already [__] up
like why would i optimize for robots
when that's like not the way to get the
job right like we're here to network our
way into opportunities so i'm going to
optimize for the thing that actually
works
i don't know
how good do the projects in my portfolio
have to be to confidently start the job
hunt
you want one really meaty project
if you have one really meaty project you
can talk about from beginning to end the
things that you had to learn the things
you had to do the things you had to
build that's better than like five
tutorials that you followed off of
youtube
right that's why we really switched to
you building projects and this whole
time you've been building small projects
right because just following the
tutorial is never enough you always want
to do something that's your own from
beginning to end that has your own
flavor your own personality baked into
it and that's the point of the 100 hours
project that's what helps you set apart
from other candidates when they're
comparing two candidates and there's a
candidate that's done 10 tutorials and
you can clearly see that the code is
following a tutorial versus somebody
that sunk 100 hours into their own
project the person that sunk their
hundred hours in their own project is
getting hired every single time
i didn't even apply a recruiter reached
out to me it works let's go
let's go
i wish i could actually get interviews
to talk about my hundred dollars project
i'll get you there uh we haven't really
started the process to get the inbound
interest from recruiters or the
the outbound
polls that we'll be doing uh so don't
worry you're you're in the place you
need to be when we get there you'll be
ready
here this is uh class 45.
and the other thing too is
i'm not the biggest fan of like
right now there's a lot of recruiter
spam
and one of the things that i see a lot
of students get
caught up in is they lean into the
recruiter spam
before they're ready for the hunt
and when you lean into the recruiter
uh the recruiter spam before you're
ready for the hunt
it goes nowhere
and you get demotivated right like you
have these like some really big
companies reach out to you
you get really really really excited
you're like oh my gosh aws just reached
out to me you spend three weeks like
getting prepared for that interview and
then they like ghost you or you like do
the first round and that's it
so i see so many folks at this point in
the process
that stall out
because the recruiter spam is really um
enticing when you see a big company that
you know reach out to you're like whoa
like i gotta respond and it detracts
from their process that if they would
have stayed the course in a month they
could have reached back out to that
recruiter and had been a better spot and
would have been a better experience so
just be careful with the recruiter spam
um
i see a lot of folks that really get
their hopes up um and not that if you're
ready you're ready right like don't
don't let me say that you're not ready
but if you're ready for it it's great if
you're not ready for it it can be
something that really distracts you and
something that can really
stall your forward momentum and your
motivation like the hunt is so much
about managing like the first things i
ask you to do is learn how to manage
your frustration the hunt is all about
that managing your frustration
and
those first couple
big interviews almost never go your way
and you don't want that to stall you out
and make it so you can't continue on in
the process so
be careful
um know that
the spam is off the charts right now um
and don't don't over invest in
interviewing at just one place
invest in yourself to be ready for
multiple places that you'll be interview
ready for
this is so true my first rejection hurt
real bad took a week to recover yeah
it's this is a really sensitive time and
so just be careful take care of yourself
and um just keep investing in yourself
right like making sure right now you
should be investing in understanding how
to build full stack web applications and
the reason why that investment is really
important is because in a month when
we're really starting to think about the
hunt you will stand out
from all the candidates that can't build
full stack web applications which is a
lot of folks that are looking for jobs
that can't build a backend cred api you
will be able to do that you will have
projects in your portfolio that prove
that and it's one of the puzzle pieces
that's going to open a door for you
that's where you should be you should be
investing in that part of the process so
you can open those few doors that would
be closed to others that didn't
we'll have time to get the other pieces
we'll have time to get those interviews
coming your way um
but like i said
it's you we're all on the same roller
coaster we all get there at different
speeds some folks really do have to jump
right into the hunt like time is of the
essence they don't have time to wait
until we get there
all of our past classes are on youtube
right like if you're somebody that
really needs a job tomorrow and the pace
that we're going is not right for this
moment that's fine still join us for
class when you can but all the past
classes on youtube go go full speed
ahead
but for most folks that i think are
going at the pace that we've been going
we'll get you there give me another
month
cool
[Laughter]
alrighty
thank you for the questions
was getting a lot of do you want to own
your own business venture no please stop
i get that when i go to ikea
when i go to ikea my wife and i always
get approached by these um
like people that are like oh do you want
to own your own business so like i'm
like
i'm trying to get a couch bruh like
thanks i guess but no i'm good
i don't know what it is about ikea these
days but
maybe out there
leon versus the odin project what do you
pick uh the odin project because leon's
just a person
a hundred devs that's that's the bee's
knees i've heard
all right let's get into this
[Laughter]
if you haven't already please go ahead
and check in
exclamation point check in
um
please go ahead and do that i'll give
everybody a second uh the link was in
discord and also remember checking
doesn't actually check you in you still
have to click the link to twitter to
like retweet uh it's something that
whenever like right now
where blonde i met to start talking
about how we're handling kind of the
influx of like verifications and
reference requests um
and so that's something we're working on
right now
one of the things that we look at before
we say yes is all right were you
checking in were you retweeting were you
actually here
have you submitted the projects all that
fun stuff we'll be talking about that
more next week
and we'll be letting you know what that
process looks like so you can get the
support that you need
all right remember health first health
first this part of the process is a lot
uh every day and this is something i'm
trying now
what
oh what
no that's wild
sipsy
with the 50
gifted subs
that is wild
tipsy thank you so much i really
appreciate that
whoa
ballin
that's wild thank you so much
you know if you all just got
a sub from sipsy can you throw some
emotes into the chat please let's show
uh sipsy some love
thank you for the subs i appreciate that
that's wild
50 bomb wow i don't that's i don't
i haven't seen a 50 bomb in a while at
that that's something
that might be the most
there we go
hey sipsy i appreciate it thank you so
much thank you for being here hope
you're doing well
that's how we start off a stream
[Laughter]
that's wild yeah and thank you everybody
for the
the primes and a lot of folks are
resubbing and all that fun stuff i
really appreciate it uh
probably next week i'm going to show you
what we brought in last year
for rc
um
it's it it's it it's
it was substantial it really does help i
appreciate everybody
cool
all right let's keep pushing here i'm
not going to go back through the slides
i just want to make sure that we're
talking about putting your health first
and there's something that i've been
experimenting with um because i think i
might want to make it a recommendation
for students but whenever i give
advice on what i think you should be
doing in terms of like productivity or
learning to code i always trial myself
so here's something that i've been
trying that has been really successful
for me
in the past week or so especially as
time's been at a premium
every day there are certain things that
i'm asking you to do
i'm asking you to do banky i'm asking
you to
do your code wars i'm asking you to
network i'm asking you to start on your
100 hours project unofficially
officially very soon
i'm asking you to do reading i'm asking
you to watch some videos i'm asking the
comments of code um there's a lot of
a lot of
little things that i'm asking you to do
pretty consistently
and it's a lot
what i'm trying
is listing out all the things i have to
do every day
and only doing like let's say there's
like let's say there's six things i have
to do
i'm only doing four of them
and every day that four out of six can
change i have to hit four out of six
right
but the four out of six i i have to do
i get to like pick and it enables me to
whatever i have the energy for that day
to do
right
and to me that's been a lot more freeing
than trying to be super regimented with
a um
a set of six every day because sometimes
i just don't
right like sometimes i just don't have
the energy to
do all six
and what i find is if i go a day or or
worse like two days without doing all
six
i feel really bad
um like i feel really bad and then that
like negativity carries over into the
next couple of days
right and so
i've been experimenting with this like
four out of six idea
like it must be a minimum of four but if
you do five it's okay right minimums
like yeah around 70 percent and it's
been
like really successful
like
way more successful than i've been in a
very long time because i i can say you
know what i really don't want to
network today or i really don't want to
do x right and that having that like
wiggle room
uh has been very very freeing uh and so
i've been really productive using that
method over the past couple of weeks and
so i'm going to keep trying it and then
i think that maybe would be a
recommendation to the core i don't know
if it's 100 recommendation yet but if
as all this stuff is coming up make sure
you're taking care of yourself make sure
you're evaluating your needs giving
yourself some room and grace to to
to get through these next few months
that are asking a lot of you
yep
yeah it doesn't matter what you do all
the time it matters what you do most of
the time yep i i really like that bit of
advice um
and somebody i was watching a video the
other day um
it was like consistency is like doing
something more often than not
right and i was like okay that makes
sense
but yeah so as as i keep doing it i'll
update but
do what you need to do to take care of
yourself in these next couple of weeks
because it's really important you get a
lot of stuff done now there's one thing
that i think is really important to do
every day and that's pushing your code
to github so you get those delicious
green squares
but
if you missed a day hello it's rufio had
a wonderful stream on showing you how to
backfill your github history uh to get
those delicious green squares should you
need them
cool
all right i'm gonna skip everything here
and we're just gonna get right back into
the to the code here so we went through
the beginnings of crud last class right
uh we went through the creating the
reading and now we have to get into the
updating and the deleting so i'm gonna
skip here to the
updating and let's look at our wonderful
to-do list here
ask
what
is that uh it's actually in the um
follow along materials channel um but
rufio if you're still here if you
message me that video i'll put it in the
follow-up to discord today
yeah
cool yeah i'll make sure that it goes in
the in the follow-up from in today's
class on discord
alrighty so here is our wonderful to-do
list
and we have two things we have
the we saw the creating right the
creating was adding something to our
to-do list
like um
i don't know get oat milk get fancy
bread
um
what's something else we should do
we should uh get
pickles
i like pickles all right get pickles
right so we create it right uh when we
create it we made a request to our
server the server had some code on it
called our api there was a smurf
listening for that create request when
it heard the create request it took the
data out of the form that was sent along
with the request it sent it to our
database and then told our browser to
refresh
when we refreshed we made a get request
which made a request to our server the
smurf heard that request it went to the
database found all the documents plugged
those into our ejs and then spit out
html from the egs and then sent that as
a response right so now we have two last
things that i want to walk through
before we get to the glue and that is
updating and deleting so should we do
updating or deleting first let's do a
poll
there we go new poll started
u or d update or delete what do you want
to do
i think delete's harder to spell than
update so i think that might be the
a lot of people are spelling delete
wrong it's okay i don't i can't spell it
either
ah y'all woke up and chose the hard ones
today
that's not even close the update's
coming in clutch first
not even close
already
about 20 seconds left here
you want to thank you for the hydration
cheers to you
scam vr a thank you for the posture
check
get in here
be good
there we go
and
with 77
the update has it all right so
chat what is the update here in our
to-do list
what can we what what can we update here
we are here for the challenge exactly
yeah we can mark stuff as completed or
not so
if i click on get pickles let's say i
went to the store and i got my pickles
we can see that it is strike through
it's grayed out
and also like our to do's like left went
down that's something separate that
we'll see in a second but the idea here
is that we can update whether or not
something has been marked completed or
not so if i click on pickles again um
what will eventually
did i click on it there we go when i
click on it we'll see that it is no
longer grayed out
right and the strikethrough is gone so i
can complete something like market
completed like i did that to do and i
can uncomplete it i can mark it on
complete and so
we have two different
things that we're really doing here
we're completing
and we are uncompleting like we're
saying hey i didn't i didn't do that
like let's bring it back so
if we were to start with what's actually
happening here before we look at the
code let's see if we can talk through
what's happening
what's the only thing
that can hear me clicking
on pickles
it's an odd question but what's the only
thing that can hear me clicking on
pickles
yeah
our client-side
event listeners our smurfs are the only
things that can hear us clicking on get
pickles remember our application is
still two parts
we have a client side
and we have a server side in fact we can
just do this because this is our client
side
client side makes requests
to our server
beautiful and so when i am clicking
on pickles
i am actually clicking on something
client-side so the only thing that can
hear that would be my client-side
javascript
yep the the javascript that's running in
our browser
right
so
it doesn't matter
what's happening over here just yet
we need to write the code that can
listen for that click
and once that code
hears the click
then we get to decide what to do with
that click we're probably going to make
a request to our server but that that's
an extra step right so the very first
thing that has to happen is that we need
some javascript
running client side that can hear our
clicks
now
once that javascript
hears the click
what are we going to do like what what
what is what are we going to write that
code to do
yeah some people are saying it yeah
we're gonna we're gonna make a fetch
right
we're gonna make a fetch and the cool
thing about making fetch happen
right the cool thing about making a
fetch happen from the client side
right is that we get to describe
what type of method we want it to be
so we could say make a
a put we could say make a delete and
when i say put i really mean what
update exactly so
i can say to my fetch hey
make a put request which is an update
request
which is an update request anybody got
like a skillshare class on like
handwriting
is there a udemy course on like how to
write
i need it
[Music]
all right
it's hard on the ipad i wish it was the
ipad bruh i i really do
i wish it was the if i had it eight
the only so
i did very well academically
uh all throughout my schooling
uh the only time in elementary school
i didn't make straight a's
uh was third grade penmanship
uh they tried to give me a b
for for my handwriting
and my mom tore them i
i still feel bad for that teacher i
still do
like at now as an educator
i i just i feel bad but my mom my mom
went in
how dare you keep my son off the the
honors roll like yeah
it was not pretty that's all i'm gonna
say
not pretty
but hey my handwriting never got better
anyway so
yeah all right so
we can
we can click we can click on pickles
there
sometimes it's just too ridiculous
we can click on pickles there is some
client-side javascript right some
clients guide javascript
that could hear that click
and when it hears that click
right when it hears that click
it's going to send a request to our
server
all right
right it's going to send a request to
our server so that that click
right that click is heard
by a smurf
and that smurf says ayo
make a fetch
and make that a
put request all right so the smurf
here's the click on pickles says ayo all
right
makes the fetch
says make a fetch and that fetch is a
put request
right it's a put request to our server
so it leaves the client side
and makes it to our server
right
now
on our server
there is some code
that is running
that can hear this request
what do we call that code that can hear
the request
yeah we call that code our
api right
and over there
it can't be smurfs we can't have smurfs
on the client side and smurfs on the
back end so we got smurfs on the client
side what do we have on the back end
that's doing the listening
gnomes i'm feeling no gremlins oh we
were using gremlins before we'll stick
with gremlins
yeah so we we got the smurf that heard
the click on the client side said hey yo
sent a fetch request
right sent a fetch request
right
that said hey make a put
there was a gremlin
right there is a gremlin
that was listening
that heard that put request there was an
app
put
right
and when it heard that put request
it did some stuff
so what are the things that's going to
happen server side that's going to
enable all these things to happen like
what do we need to do
on the server for this put or this
updating to happen
yeah eventually we need to update the
database that's good right so when we
made this fetch this put request we
probably sent along some data
uh we probably sent along the fact that
we had clicked on pickles so
pickles
was in that set of data that came across
with the request
and when our gremlin heard that request
on the server side and it triggered the
app.put the first thing it's going to do
is grab that pickle data
out of the request so it'll be like all
right
i have pickle now
now that it has pickle
it's gonna go to the database
and find
the document
that has
pickle
and when it finds the document
that has pickle what's it going to do
what's it gonna do
it's gonna change yeah it's gonna it's
gonna update
that
it's going to update that
this is this needs to be refreshed one
second
it's going to
update that
get pickles property of completed
to true
we saw on tuesday when we created a
document it starts off as false right
when we create a document it starts off
as false so
when we did the update we found get
pickles
and we changed completed
from false
to true
right from false to true
and then once we have
changed it
from false to true
then what do we do
yep we respond
and for now we tell hey why why don't
you refresh so we'll say all right we'll
respond
and we'll say you know what you should
probably
refresh
right you should probably refresh
and when the server refreshes
right when the server refreshes
what type of request does it make sorry
when the client side refreshes what type
of request does it make
it makes a get request exactly a get
request goes to our server
and this time when the app dot get runs
right when the app dot get runs
it goes back to the database
right it goes back to the database and
this time
this time when it looks at all the
documents
it's going to notice
that the pickled document is different
the pickle document used to say
false
and now the pickle document says true
that's going to change what happens
right this is what's going to change
what happens
when we try and pass all that data
into our ejs
now things are a little bit different
and the ejs is going to render a little
bit different right meaning that our
pickles are now going to look
crossed out because it gets that class
that we saw before
so i think the really really hard thing
here especially for folks that are new
to this crud and the way that we're
really breaking it down eventually we'll
we won't we'll use things that make this
like not needing the page refreshes and
things like that but i still want you to
see the request and really have them
broken down
right and so we had to do two requests
to see
this pickles get updated
right we had we had to see two requests
to see a change sorry in the dom right
we had to make a put request which
actually changed what happened in the
database
and then we had to make a get request so
that the user could actually see it in
the dom
if we had just triggered a put
our database would have changed but the
user would not have seen anything
does that make sense
we're going to walk through it we're
going to see the code but it's really
two different things that are happening
here for us to see
this change
cool
all right let's take a look at some of
the code
all right
let's take a look at some of this code
and
when we look at this code we're going to
start off with our ejs
and i'm going to take a look right here
because this is again
this is where it can be a little tricky
right this is eventually what will be in
the dom that we will be clicking right
so this is my
index.ejs
if you need the code make sure you're on
our discord exclamation point discord uh
the starter code for today is in our
discord announcement before we went to
class all right if we look at it
we talked yes we talked on tuesday about
how
this page gets rendered out basically we
find all the documents
in our database right right now we have
we have
one two three documents
inside of our database so when this
runs
this for loop will run three times
meaning
that we will have three lis that make it
into the dom eventually
now when we look at each li
there is some conditional logic here
that is really really important
we are going to look
at each
document to see if it's completed
property is true
if it's completed property is true
then the span that's going to hold that
text like the get bread the get pickles
the get oat milk right that will have a
completed class
and that completed class is what makes
it grayed out and the line through
right however
if the completed class is not true right
the else will auto magically run
and the span that we put into the li
will just be a regular regular span
there will not be any class added like
we have here this class completed is not
there so it's just a regular
span
cool
so let's play a little
little game here
if just by looking at our database we
should be able to make some guesses
about what's going to happen in the dom
okay so when i look at this first
document in my mongodb database i can
see that get oat milk has a completed
property of false
what does that mean
in terms of what we're going to wind up
seeing in the browser in the dom what
does that mean what what do we know
about get oat milk
yup it's going to be visible it will not
be gray and it will not be strike
through it's just going to be plain get
oat milk cool
same thing for get fancy bread right
no style on it
completed is false
that means it's going to be exactly a
span with no class of completed which
means that it won't be gray and it won't
be strike through it'll just be normal
texting get fancy bread
however
when we get down to get pickles
when we get down to get pickles we can
see that get pixel
not this again
if you're a real og you know what that
where i was about to go
all right
center
when we get down to get
pickles
right
we get down to get
pickles
we see that completed is actually set to
true
so what do i know
about how this is going to be visualized
in the dom
what's going to happen what are we going
to see
yeah
we know that when the ejs renders this
out this get pickles is going to be
strike through
gray right it's going to be very
different looking than the other two
beautiful
all right
so
let's go ahead
and see if we can follow the whole path
of what is happening when we click
on these bits of text so i'm gonna start
um with get pickles
being i gotta change this it's gonna get
me in trouble
let's change this to
get donuts
there we go
oh get coffee i like get coffee better
cool get coffee
there we go
get coffee
all right
third grade leon's coming out i went
from pickles to donuts all right
get coffee
safe
easy
oh [__] we all know what coffee is never
mind can't do coffee either
get
pizza there you go pizza safe
get paid
all right there we go get pizza
all right
so we have get pizza here in our to-do
list i'm going to click you ready
i should go i should come this way i'm
clicking
boom there you go the click
the click happened
right
all right
now
what did i just click on
question for chat what the heck did i
just click on
i clicked on a span
that is inside of an li we can see that
when we look at our ejs
right
there is this li that was going to be
created
and inside that li was going to be a
span
did that span have a completed class
when i first clicked on it
no
it did not have a completed class it had
just been added to the list
it did not so it was this span right
here
this span
was the span i actually clicked on that
had get pizza in it
right it was get pizza that's the span i
actually clicked on
now if we look at the end here
this page
has a
script tag a javascript file that is
running
so when we see that we know that there's
something that might have been listening
for that click
on that span inside that li there might
have been some client-side javascript
listening
for that click so we have to start
by looking at that javascript file
and since we are using express
where would this javascript file
probably exist
if we had to like go find that
javascript file where is it going to
exist because we're using express
going to be in our public folder
remember all of our static files that
are going to get served up our css or
javascript
are all going to be in the public folder
so we don't have to hand code a route
for those files we throw it in the
public folder and express magically
handles all of it
right so we can see in our public folder
here i have a js folder which is the
path that says go into the js folder
remember this means like go into the
public
find the js folder and then find the
main main.js so here we go js folder
main.js beautiful
here we have
our client-side javascript
that's listening
as listening for these clicks right
listening for these clicks
right and so
we actually have
uh three
what are what are these we have three
what
we have three what chat
yeah we got three smurfs right
three event listeners that are listening
for those clicks now
did we click on
a delete button
no so that didn't work did we click on a
span
yes
and so this is very specific we're
saying find
all of the spans inside of something
that has the class of item
let's go back and look at our ejs real
quick
span
all right here we go span
oh the li has the class of item
right so
we are actually able to listen four
clicks
on the span that are inside the li that
had the class
of
item and so here we grabbed all the
spans inside of the li's because there
are at least three lis that are on our
page right now and so
we grab all those spans
and we actually loop through them
adding
a smurf
right we've looped through adding a
smurf adding an event listener to each
one
of our spans that we can click on right
this line right here line 9 through 11
goes through
and adds a smurf
to each of our spans
all right so that that loop
ran through three times
adding right adding those smurfs those
event listeners that could listen for
the clicks clicks
clicks don't come for free
right there are some elements that have
stuff built in like forums can submit on
their own but when you're clicking on
regular text there has to be something
that's listening for that click
and so we set up our client-side
javascript to hear those clicks
right
all right so now
we can see that every single one of
those spans
all three of them
wind up
with
an event listener
that runs a function called what
every single one of our smurfs is going
to follow a specific set of instructions
when they hear the click what set of
instructions is going to run
you got to earn this click exactly
yeah
all right
i wanted to see who see who's there we
have the mark complete we can see right
for every single one of those spans
winds up with the event listener and
that event listener is going to call the
mark complete function so let's go ahead
and take a look at this mark complete
function and then we'll take our break
so mark complete function delete item
not what we're looking for
mark complete all right here's what we
are looking for
boom
mark complete function
and we can see that it does
what we said it was going to do
line 37 what is line 37 doing here
it's really complicated i'm going to
show you how to clean these up a little
bit later i hate using the child nodes
parent node stuff but i want you to be
exposed to it
so you can at least see it once and then
we'll we'll move away from it
what's it doing
it's grabbing
the to-do right it's grabbing the text
right it's grabbing that to do so this
is the thing that grabbed the text
of get pizza right
is the thing that grabbed
the text
of get pizza how did that get past
how did that get past
the moderator
rip
that's funny
all right
we were able to go ahead and grab that
text of get pizza
right
get pizza
out of
the dom right so item text is gonna hold
get pizza
and then what am i gonna do with that
get pizza text
what am i going to do with that get
pizza text
i'm going to send it with the request
exactly if we look here
we can see that i'm going to make a
fetch
that fetch is going to be a put method
and i'm going to send along that item
text
that item text is right now the text of
get pizza
right when i clicked on get pizza
that client-side javascript heard the
click
and it ran this function it ran this
mark complete function
the very first thing we did
is grab the text
we need the text right because we're
going to update something in our
database we need to know what we're
going to update
if we don't have the text that was
clicked on if we don't have the get
pizza there's nothing we can do on the
server side right there's nothing that
we can actually we just don't know what
to update right we won't know
what
to update
right so i am sending along
this right here and i'll show it when we
get back for break how it does it but
this right here grabbed
get
pizza
all right this grab get pizza now
wherever i see item text
it's actually
pizza
right
it's get pizza so i am now
going to put
going to make a put request
to the server
and i am going to send along
the request body
that now has get pizza
what will be the name i have to use
if i want the text get pizza on my
server side
what's the text i'm gonna have to use if
i want get pizza on my server side
exactly it has it has a property here
it has a property of item from js so
when i look on my server side and i see
request dot body dot item from js
that's what is going to be holding get
pizza and so this request
leaves the client side
and makes it all the way to our server
where there is a server set up to hear
this request and if we look
here we go
app.put we said it was a put request we
can look at our main js that we made a
fetch to mark complete that's our route
right that's our route
mark complete is our routes we made a we
made a request to mark complete it's a
put so we're able to find app.put with
the route of mark complete
and when the server when the gremlins
hear
that request
right
when the server hears that mar that that
put request is gonna do some stuff and
we already know that we have to go to
the database and update something so
that's what we're gonna do we're gonna
go to our connected database
we're gonna find the to do's collection
and we're going to update one thing
we're going to update the first document
that has a thing property of what
we're going to update the first
document that has a thing property of
what
get pizza
exactly remember we said if we looked
for a request stop body dot item from js
that was get pizza so now
we've gone to the database we've looked
in our to do's collection and we're
gonna update a document that has a thing
property of get pizza
and when we find it
we're gonna set the
completed property
to true
so it was false
but now we found it and set completed
the true if we look at our
our database
and we refresh
we're going to see that get pizza now
has a completed property of
true
right has a completed property of true
now
there's a lot of other crap here that
we'll talk about when we come back from
the break
but
we
set it to true
and then
all we do
is we respond saying what
we respond saying what we we've updated
a value in our database and we respond
saying what
it is not
mark complete all right so let's go back
where where is that response going to be
sent though
where is this response going to be sent
though
yeah it's going to be sent back to the
client that made the request let's go
back and look at our javascript our
client-side javascript right
well console.log hey
mark complete and then what does our
client-side javascript do
it refreshes the page and when it
refreshes the page it triggers a what
it triggers a get the get goes to the
database however this time the get pizza
document is different
so when it goes to to build out the the
html it now has to have that completed
property which is going to make the get
pizza look different
so i think a lot of folks this is the
trickiest one
right because there's a quite a few
steps that you have to be kind of up on
right you have to understand that the
client-side javascript is hearing the
clicks
then you have to understand that that
makes a request to the server
you have to understand the server hears
that request
update something in the database
and then responds back to the client
and still at this point
nothing changes for the user
nothing has changed for the user
until what happens
until it refreshes
when it refreshes then the browser has
permission to go back to the server
ask for all the updated documents and
now the document has changed our ejs and
what we show the user can change and
that's when we see the results in the
dom
right
so
when we come back from break
we'll run this back so we'll see this
the whole process from beginning to end
again
and i'll explain some of the little
extra things that are in there like the
upserts or all that fun stuff so
let's go ahead and put five minutes on
the clock here
if you're new around here we like to
take a break at the top of every hour to
stay healthy
if you are able please get up move
around hydrate and i'm gonna run some
ads so that folks don't have to sit
through commercials when they come back
to class
and i will see you all in five minutes
all right folks be well see you soon
all righty uh so we did have a uh lovely
raffle
uh that was in the newsletter
exclamation point newsletter if you do
not get the newsletter it's where all
the good stuff happens first all the big
announcements all the the cool sponsor
stuff all of the raffles all go to the
newsletter first
um
so if you haven't
please subscribe to newsletter xbox
newsletter uh it really does help out
the community all right so we had a
raffle for coffee chats we're gonna do
three more coffee chats
uh for folks that went on tuesday you'll
get a message from me today with these
three
and then we'll schedule them for next
week so we had 716 people that have
already filled out the the newsletter
raffle which is wild uh so i'm gonna go
ahead and run i'm gonna pick three
three two one
beautiful not a big deal mel and eddie a
there we go you'll get a message from me
later today books that one tuesday
message for me later today too
and uh we'll set up those coffee chats
let's go congrats
alrighty let's keep pushing folks
so close
[Laughter]
congrats everyone
right
so
let's see here
we're talking through the update or the
put request
and
let's
run through it one more time there's a
lot of little steps here right there's a
lot of little steps here
um but what we have to realize is that
there's kind of like two big pieces here
the updating is actually separate from
what the user actually winds up seeing
like the updating happens but it's the
refreshing that makes another request to
go get the changes right and so it's not
until the request go gets those changes
that the user only actually sees
something and this is actually really
hard for a lot of people to tackle
because it looks like it happens
instantly it looks like we click and it
immediately changes and that's just
because it's so fast we sit on the
shoulders of giants that have gone
through the muck building out iptcp
building out the http protocol making it
so that our broadband speeds can go to a
server and back and it looks
instant
but we have to get good
at at
breaking down step by step what is
happening uh i actually just saw this
there is um
so i've been watching a lot of like
youtube because it's one of the things i
can do i have little one and uh i'm like
getting it's like these like really like
i don't know i just like i'm like in
weird youtube holes right now but i've
been really into like
cool like computer science-y stuff
and uh there's this one person bob
metcalfe uh they invented ethernet like
they're the person that invented
ethernet
and i in boston especially in the tech
scene uh they would always start off
their talks with like hey i'm bob
metcalf i invented ethernet they
invented ethernet can you imagine
inventing ethernet
so shout out bob metcalf for inventing
ethernet so that all this stuff can
happen
super fast
right
cool
so
what we have to do is realize that this
is actually two really big steps and a
lot of other little things that are
happening so i'm going to
i'm going to refresh and uncomplete this
there we go so it's uncompleted and so
right now if we were to go and look this
is a tricky question if i was to go and
look at get pizza
in the database
what do we expect that document to have
like what do we expect that document to
have what properties and values do we
expect the get pizza document to have
right it's going to have a thing of get
pizza
and a completed of false exactly and so
let's go ahead and
uh
refresh the page
i didn't know that in different kept it
secret for 10 years that's wild
all right so if we look at get pizza all
right we're doing good it had a thin
property of get pizza
and a complete it of false we are in
good shape now
when we click get pizza again
boom
some big
steps
happen
oh give me your suggestions i'll keep an
eye out for those i want those right
two
big steps
happened
right two big steps happened
one step was updating the database and
the other step was getting those changes
so we could see
what happened in the
dom
right so
the first step
the updating
right
it heard that click on get pizza
what's the only thing that could hear
that click
on our client side what's the thing that
heard that click
on the client side
our smurf
our event listener in our client side
javascript exactly there's some
client-side javascript that heard that
click on get pizza let's take a look at
it
here it is
we set up the click event we grabbed all
the spans that were inside those lies
with the class of item
and we gave every span the ability to
run the mark complete function that
means
get oat milk if i was to click on it
would run the
the mark complete function if i was to
click on get fancy bread it would run
the mark complete function and before i
clicked on it so would get pizza right
so when i clicked on get pizza
that marked complete function ran
all right that marked complete function
ran
now
if we look at that mark complete
function
it's really doing one really important
thing
it is grabbing the thing we just clicked
on
this
dot parent node child nodes one inner
text
it's going to go and grab the thing we
clicked on so if we look
the thing we clicked on item was the
span
right
the thing we clicked on
was the span
now we're going to do some complicated
stuff
while we're here
let's look at the ejs
we clicked on the
span what would be the parent node
of the span
what would be the parent node
good
parent note of the span would be the li
beautiful
and then if we say all right the li is
the parent node
and we say all right parent node is the
li
child node 1
what would be the child node
of the li
the span right if we look back in this
ejs it's going to be the span now
remember it there's only ever going to
be one span here it could have been this
one or it could have been this one based
on the conditional logic where we're at
right now
right
where we're at now
this span
is the child node one
right
now why is it one instead of zero well
it's because all the stuff that takes up
space winds up being a node um so
there's things like bullet points there
could be carriage returns could be stuff
that like gets in between what's
actually being rendered in the dunks
remember the dom is really
like this weird thing that's not
directly just your html right it's like
all these nodes that are being connected
that we can go deeper into later but
there there's things that are just the
text is not zero it is one right so
we have the span which we know is the
child node of the li
and then we're going to go ahead and
grab
its inner text
right
we're gonna go ahead and grab its inner
text so if we had clicked
on get pizza
we went up to the parent node which was
the li
then we went into the child node 1 which
was the span itself
which would give us
the thing we just clicked on
and then we got the text
which would give us get pizza
right
which would give us get pizza so now we
have
the text
of get pizza what does this do again
it's the thing that we're clicking on
right
cool so this is the thing we're clicking
on and this this changes context but in
this case
the thing we're clicking on
so now we have the text of get pizza
right
jazzy pants said this is clearly not the
best way to do it leon's getting ready
ready for us for terrible legacy code
yes this shows up all the time and it's
super confusing so i like to show it
at least once before we start doing
things a little bit more optimally right
now
we have clicked on the span we went up
to the li we went back to the span and
we got the text out of it
right we got the text out of it
so wherever i see item text
it's really what in this scenario
it's as though we kind of cross this out
and item text is actually what
it's actually get pizza yep
great
so wherever i see item text
it's actually get pizza
so it's as though
item text here
is the string get
pizza now remember
we are trying to make a request to our
server and here's us setting up that
request we are going to make a fetch
with oops sorry this is delete item not
uh mark complete there we go we are
going to make a fetch
all right we're going to make a fetch
that is a put so we are making a put
request to our server and when we make
that put request along with that request
comes the body remember we saw on
tuesday that the request
has all this information it's wild
so much information goes along with that
request including the request body now
here
we are har coding the request body we
get to construct the body where else
have we seen a request body come from
where else have we seen a request body
come from on tuesday
yeah
all right chad i see you
the form right the form on tuesday when
we made that post request
along with the request came all the info
from the form so when we make this put
request we're sending all this
information along with the request
including this body
that has that's an object right it has
an item from js property and it has a
value
so when i send this request
right when i send this request to my
server the server can look at the
request body and it can look at the item
from js property and it gets us what
what what is the item from js property
in our request body actually holding
what is its value
it's get pizza we're exactly we're
sending along
get pizza
if we were to console log this we would
see
get pizza coming along with that request
body to the
server right
now
that request
makes it all the way to our server
there is a gremlin that is ready to hear
that request it's a put request
and it's on the mark complete route we
got the mark complete route because that
was the name of the fetch
the fetch here
and the route here
half the match
right
cool now
gremlin here's the request checks that
it's a put checks that it's the the
right route and so we get to do all the
stuff
inside
of this
lovely put
and we are going to do a few things
we are going to go to our database
we are going to
go to our to-do's collection so let's go
to our database
let's find our to-do's collection here
it is all right we went to our database
we found our to-do's collection
and we are going to update one
so when we use update one
we have to find
the document that we want to update
right
the cool thing for right now
is that there is only one document that
had
the text of get pizza so that's what i'm
gonna look for
request
dot body that item from js was actually
get
pizza so i am going to look
in my database in my todos collection
i'm going to look for a document that
has a thing property
of get pizza so let's go ahead and take
a look
all right
all right uh get oat milk that thing get
oh milk that's not it
thing get fancy bread that's not it
thing get pizza match winner winner
winner winner chicken dinner right that
is a
match
so what do i do oh i'm going to update
that document and how am i going to
update it well i'm going to set
its completed property to
true
going to set its completed property
to
true and so
if we were to refresh our database here
we would see that our completed property
goes from false
to true because we told it to do that
right we told it to do that
right
we told it to do that
yep these are methods built into mongodb
exactly
all right
so we told it to set that completed
property to true now there are a couple
other things that are here and once
again please hold on i gotta get big for
this
you know what let's let's let's go to
the boardroom
please
all right please
when you're looking at all this syntax
i do
not need you
to have this syntax memorized
that's not where you need to be right
now
all right
i don't need you to have all this the
semicolons the the curly braces i i
don't
do i get a chair heck yeah you get the
big one you get the you get the nice one
see
i like to sit i like to sit i can't draw
on this screen but
i like to sit with my back to the wall
so hold on
that one
that one's mine i have to have my back
to the wall that's mine and then
in different that's yours right there
right there yep there we
[Laughter]
go so i don't need you to have all these
curly braces
all of these parentheses i don't have to
you don't have to have this memorized
it's a lego brick
know where you put your legos away right
it's really important we've been a lot
of you been training your whole lives
for this right
mom dad parental guardian told you to
put the legos away
because they wanted you to get used to
knowing where to go and get your legos
at the end of the day i need you to know
where to go
and get this code
right
so that you can use it i don't need you
right i don't need you
to have this memorized right this is too
much right now to have memorized
eventually as you build your 100 hours
project and you're doing this crap over
and over and over and over and over and
over again you'll get comfortable with
it you'll understand it you could
probably do most of it from memory but
right now we just gotta know where we
put the legos away
that we can go later on a week from now
grab the legos that you need
right
grab the legos that you need and put
them to work now
inside of here are some things that even
if you didn't know what the heck it was
doing you could have still used this
totally fine
right now we have a problem
and our problem is that
our
[Music]
sort
sorry our problem right now is that
there technically could be
uh two things called get pizza
right there could be two things that
have get pizza
right
and
if there were two things that get pizza
what thing am i updating
and right now
right right now
i am sorting in a specific order top to
bottom you can sort top to bottom or
bottom the top right and so it would
just grab the first thing
that had get pizza
eventually we're going to use ids
eventually we are going to use
um very specific things right
but for now
right for now
we are going to just say whatever one
came first that's the one we're going to
update
all right that's it
cool
now
the
upsert false
if you set this to true does anybody
know what happens if you set this to
true
something really interesting can happen
if you set this to true
yeah
exactly so if you set this to true
uh what can happen
is that if you tried to update something
that wasn't there
it would just create the document for
you
which can save you a lot of headache
especially if your
um
if your templating language is a little
bit more stiff
right if it's a little more stiff and
always requires something to be there
and so the outside would just literally
create the document for you that had the
thing right so if i tried to update
git
duck
right there was no get duck in the
database so it would just literally
create get duck with a completed
property of true
so that exists
do you have to know how to use it right
now no
but there are these types of things
great so
we updated the document that had the
thing property of get pizza we changed
it from false to true
at this moment
at this moment we have updated our
database but would the user have seen
any changes yet
would the user have seen any changes yet
not yet
we haven't even responded back to our
client side yet so let's do the response
we're going to respond with some json
that says marked complete so that
response gets sent back to our client
side
our lovely main.js is set up to actually
handle that it's going to grab that
response as data we will console log to
the client side
that it was marked complete and then our
client side is going to do the heavy
lifting for us here and do what
and refresh exactly
so it will refresh
and when it refreshes we are going to
make a what type of request
a get request
that get request will trigger
the gremlin
that will go to our to do's
it will find all the documents however
one of our documents is different this
time when we pass those documents right
when we pass those documents into our
ejs to be rendered
well this time the ejs is going to
render out
this span
with the completed class for get pizza
as opposed to this span which means it's
going to show up as the strikethrough
line through
when
when it responds with that updated html
it's going to respond with that updated
html and finally
finally our users can see
the strikethrough grayed out get pizza
questions while we are here
uh how how do you decide whether to
refresh from server or client side um so
it depends on what you're trying to do
none of this is like actually
100 how we're going to do it in
production right now this is really
demonstrating how requests and responses
are being made i really want you to
understand that there's there's these
requests and these responses right
and as long as you know that there are
requests and responses being made
uh then you can start getting deeper
down the rabbit hole into like all right
how can i do this without having to
force to refresh how can i do this so
that it happens a little bit more
seamlessly and we're going to get there
we're going to build up to it but for
right now this is kind of just so we can
see
all right we have a concept that the web
isn't magic that it builds off of these
requests and responses
we can trigger the request ourselves on
the client side and we can build our api
to listen for those requests it's really
fancy event listeners and once that
clicks
you can do whatever the heck you want
you can you can eventually make it more
optimal you can eventually add more
layers to this but at its core you're
still doing that fundamental thing
and
for most folks they could leave
tonight's class and build whatever the
heck they wanted they can now create
read update delete next week we're going
to add the mvc to give us a little bit
more structure and we'll be adding
authentication so that you can have
users log in that's it
that
welcome to the agency sit down start
building some code for real clients like
that that's it that's all we got to do
right and so
you're closer
than you think right
than you think
and so we're going to get there we're
going to keep adding some more layers on
top we're going to add some other stuff
that makes our lives easier
but the building starts next week next
week you're ready to build that's it
all
oh right god did i just get hired
all right
uh
does a checkbox status update worked the
same way it can you could code a
checkbox to do exactly this
in fact like if you're like
i don't know
i'm dating myself i've been on the web
for a long time
back in the day the way we used to do
check boxes
and this wasn't like accessible at all
but they weren't actually check bot well
they were they could be check boxes but
we would put images in them
and so you would have an image of a
check box and then when you checked it
it would add a class that showed a
different image
right
and so you were actually just toggling
images for it to be checked and
unchecked
yeah i'm glad i'll do that anymore
will you add more help channels for
backend credit etc we already have a
node.js channel for all your backend
needs you should use that channel
uh also
uh for folks that are using the help
channel uh one thing that's really
difficult for folks to help you is if
you're posting like lots of images some
folks will like post
tons of images of their like code
and that doesn't help somebody that
wants to help you right if they don't
have like your repo or a gist where they
can copy and paste code it's very
difficult
so please if you're using the help
channels try and limit the number of
photos that you're sharing and instead
share the actual code uh github just are
really easy to create um replits are
really easy to create the the the less
friction you can give between somebody
looking and playing with your code and
helping you the better especially as we
get deeper into this stuff
um not that you can't always use that
you can't use photos to to show stuff
especially like html css stuff but as we
get deeper and deeper into code
especially when we get into like data
structures and algorithm give somebody a
reply or a gist or something like that
that'll be way more helpful
you can use markdown and discord exactly
yeah
yeah cool
yeah if if if the the photos don't kind
of slow down in the help channels we
might have to turn off embeds because
they're they're really taking up a lot
of room and it's really hard for folks
to get help when they share them so
try and try and
emphasize code instead of instead of
photos
yeah
mr said thank you i try to help every
day i prefer they post repos exactly
repos gist and replits are super easy to
set up
dreaming hey thank you for the hydration
cheers to you
markdown discord helps a lot yup you can
do shift enter for next line and back
ticks for code exactly
could we cover those in office hours
that's a good idea to cover in office
hours yeah
um
just they're really easy just from
within your github like you don't have
to use the terminal or anything you can
just like click the button to create a
gist where you can it's just like it's
like a paste bin basically
um and then replied you just create an
account and you can put in your code
like
um
i don't know if i should share this idea
yet i'll share and then we'll move to
the delete
um
for the agency i was thinking like
through i was like thinking through i
was like all right what if we did a
hundred projects
and each project got more expensive
right like for the agency like i want
everything to be in the open how much
money we're making how much we're
what we're doing like i want all the
codes maybe even be open source if
we can get clients that would want to do
that and i was thinking like all right
what if we start off at like a thousand
dollars
and then every project goes up by a
thousand so like the first person that
comes to the agency pays a thousand
dollars we build their project the next
one's two thousand three thousand four
thousand with the goal of a hundred
projects right
uh and so early on people jump in to do
it because they want to get it cheap
right
um
and then i was like well how much money
is that
right i was like i don't know what like
what's the like is there a way to use
like gauss's summation to figure out how
much money that would be and i was like
i don't want to stay here and like i
don't want to sit here and like add it
in a calculator so i just i just i just
wrote
the code in a reply right i just did a
reply with a simple loop and i was like
oh boom got it and that was it right
uh so like code helps day-to-day
uh which is pretty pretty fun
yeah
exactly people are throwing gauss's
summation in chat exactly
sounds like a code word yeah
life just boils down to practical code
wars what else is it
all right so we did the updating i just
want to make sure we don't have any
other questions about updating and then
we'll do deleting so
updating any other questions before we
move on
no questions too simple here
next week we're getting into the real
meat folks mvc authentication you
definitely don't want to miss next week
uh is there a difference between put and
patch
sort of i guess but in this case not
really there's like different things
that it should technically be doing but
nobody really uses it correctly
um i wouldn't worry about it for right
now
all right
nobody uses it correctly exactly
indifferent
all right cool let's go ahead and do
this delete
um maybe we take our break a little
earlier let's take our break a little
early
um we'll take a break a little early
that way folks can get a mental
relaxation to then come back and do the
deleting we'll finish the deleting and
we'll if we have a little bit of time
maybe we'll do a little bit of um
just kind of office hours type stuff
until we're we're out of time let's go
ahead and take our five minutes on the
clock when we come back we'll finish up
our crud we'll be done in the crud let's
go
we'll be done in the crud let's go
uh and different said put syntactically
means that we need a whole object to
update and patch is just to update a
part of the object but no one ever cares
yeah exactly yeah
aka codeweeny stuff
alrighty and
god's
your asti
uh with the two minutes added to the
timer we're getting one of those
luxurious seven minutes
folks a seven minute break let's go
man i need to be fired all right
let's go ahead and
we're gonna do the delay tang and we're
done our delay tang we are going to look
at the glue
how all the little pieces come together
so this actually runs and then if we
have some time we'll do some questions
all right
the funny thing is like this song is not
true
that's not what was playing right
yeah no
it's always stream beats by harris
heller i don't know where that comes
from
all right
let's go and take a look at this
deleting then we'll take a look at the
glue
all right
so here we have this get pizza and i
want to eat it so i'm going to click the
trash can
yoink gone now
what we learned
from the
updating
is that deleting
actually happened across
two steps right what two requests
were made for this made to the server to
get the result we see on the screen
right now
yeah
exactly
it was a
delete
request to the server
and then a refresh that triggered a
get beautiful all right let's go and
take a look at this
what's the only thing
that could have heard
the click
on the trash can
yeah our client-side smurf our event
listeners the only thing that could have
heard the click on the trash can so
let's start there
we can see in the ejs
that there is this span of trash can
here
and the interesting thing is we're going
to have to go from this trash can
the thing that's being clicked
to the text
that was inside the span
right so we're going to use that pattern
that we just saw with the update to go
from the trash can
up to the li and into the child to get
the text that exists there
right cool so let's go and take a look
at the client side javascript remember
this egs spits out html and the html
linked to this client side javascript if
we look at the client side javascript
we have selected all of the trash cans
we're using that font awesome for the
trash cans and that's the class that
came with the trash cans we went along
here and add it
all right went along here and added a
delete uh an event listener to each of
the trash cans called delete item so
every trash can now has this function
that we're going to call called delete
item so when i clicked on the trash can
it ran the delete item function
and once again we clicked on the trash
can
right we clicked on the trash can so
this was the trash can that we clicked
on
we went up to the parent node which was
what chat what was the parent node
the li exactly went up to the li from
the span to the li and we looked at the
first child node which had the span
that had text inside of it so we grabbed
that span we grabbed that text that text
was
get pizza there was text in there and as
though we crossed this out we just had
get pizza
right
yet pizza was the text
once again we are going to make a fetch
to our server that fetch is going to
have the route of delete item and it's
going to send along that request body
that has the item text of
get
pizza
right
it's going to have that item text of get
pizza
and so that request
leaves our client side
goes to the server where there is a
gremlin ready to hear that
request
all right app.delete
app.delete the route
matches the route from our fetch so we
are good
we are going to go to our database
we are going to find the to do's
collection and we are going to delete
one
so beautiful
i love it
no querying language
want to delete something delete one
you want to update something
update one
what
that easy
let's go
uh leon somebody had a good question
leon why don't we have to put the full
url there why is it the route for each
of these fetch requests
uh why don't i need
um like the full route like i don't need
a url here why don't i need a url here
because we're we're already running on
our local server right like it's already
running on our server
so we're already at the root like if we
look we're already at
localhost 2121 right and so we're
already there so we're already there and
everything else is just a route off of
that um when we put things on heroku
things might be a little bit different
as we get a little bit deeper into it
but we're already connected yeah
yep express is doing the heavy lifting
for us the express knows to like all
right take that and then append the
stuff after it
cool
all right so
back to the
api here
we went to our database we went to our
to-do's collection we're going to delete
one well what one are we going to delete
the thing that has the request body
items from js which is in this case
get pizza so we are going to go to our
database
we are going to find something that has
the thing property of get pizza and when
we find it
we are going to delete it
brilliant
it's beautiful
you want to learn anything else we just
say we want to have happen and it does
it
that's amazing all right so delete one
let's go to our database
let's find the one that has the thing
property of get pizza i found it
and so once i found it i'm gonna delete
it so if i refresh
ye
gone there's only two documents left
only two documents left the other one
was gone yeah it's gone
it's gone
it's deleted
beautiful
uberfly said i really can't believe i
understand this let's go
hold on 10 second warning
10 second warning for uberfly storm
getting this 10 seconds five
four
three
two
one let's go
[Music]
so
for you
[Music]
hey does this work
let's go let's go
y'all right here understanding how to
build full stack
full
stack
web applications
you know how to
make
create read update delete request next
week you're gonna know how to organize
it using mvc you're gonna add
authentication
let's go
come on now
so many of us started off the beginning
of the year not even knowing
what javascript was
and you all are out here
building full stack web applications
let's go look at you
look at you
[Laughter]
all right
so
we
deleted it
and then we just responded
back to our client side
all right we're out here delay tang
right we're out here delay taying and we
just responded hey the to-do was deleted
our
code knew what to do
it said all right let me console.log
that we deleted and then
we refreshed
and when we refreshed
we made a get request to the server
our server was set up to hear that get
request
it heard that get request
it went to the database
it went to our to-do's collection it
found all the documents but this time
there was one less there used to be
three
now
there is two
from three to two right and so our array
just had the two documents we passed
those two documents into our ejs and so
now when the egs renders and it sent
back that html
it was missing the document that was
deleted
beautiful
gisha you're looking at it you're
looking at it this is the template for
you
boom if you need the code it's in our
discord
all right
so that's the deleting so now we've gone
ahead and we've been able to do git post
puts deletes
there's actually something pretty
interesting here let's let's make sure
there's any questions and then i want to
show one other thing before we talk
about the glue
should we use this file as a template
hell yeah this is your start um we're
gonna add we're gonna have a better
template next week once we get to the
mvc um so you can definitely use this
this weekend
please this weekend build something
don't ever just watch a tutorial and
then go home and be like that was great
leon was on one tonight but it was a
good class like i feel great and then
like you don't do anything until tuesday
no
take this code
and build something
make the to-do list do something
different tweak it make it a little bit
better make it your own don't make it a
to-do list make it a done list i don't
know take this and make it your own in
some way shape or form right
please at this point in program
don't just
consume
you have to do
right you have to do at this point you
should feel a little bit more
comfortable with the creating the
reading update and deleting now is the
time for you to actually learn by
getting in the code playing with it
breaking it when you get lost or or
stuck
jump on discord jump into those voice
channels get help
don't suffer in silence get the help you
need build it break it play with it
what if i break it clone down a fresh
copy i can't tell you how many times
i've utterly destroyed my code and just
pulled down the most recent push to
github that's it
i've done it i've done it hundreds of
times throughout my career where i've
just gotten so lost in the sauce where
i'm just like [__] it
and pull down the last place i was at
yeah you can roll back and all that fun
stuff but
back in my you know what i used to what
i did for the longest time
was i would just
i would delete the whole repo i'll just
delete everything and just clone down
the repo again i don't care i just
delete everything right
i was a point where i was like keeping
zip files on my computer before i knew
how to use github and i would just like
i would get lost and i would just delete
the whole folder and unzip it again and
be right back where i started
cool
all right
questions about the delete
ants asked a really good question is it
best practice to delete from the
database in most crud apps or keep the
data and just remove from the client
side render
we could all do that right now that's
actually really fun
a really cool
like extension to the to-do list would
be to build a to-do list that never
deletes the data from the database
think about that
right
if we're looking at our [__] database
right now we're setting like this
complete it to false or true there could
be like another thing that we're keeping
track of that's like deleted
and set it to false or true
right
soft yeah and different things soft
leads are a popular pattern so what i
could do is i could just set the deleted
property to true
and when i render out my like get
request i only show documents where the
deleted property is false so all of the
to-do's stay in my mongodb database but
the users are only seeing the ones that
they haven't they haven't deleted yet
but all i get to keep all the data so
that's a that's a interesting pattern
but you all could do that right now just
by extending this idea of complete it uh
to being deleted as well or like a
deleted one
know
kind of freaky welcome to how
all the social media apps that you use
work when you delete stuff it's not
actually deleted
i'm sure like the eu regulations are
gonna start changing some of this but
yeah a lot of stuff is like not ever
actually deleted
that blew my that like
if you think snapchat is like deleting
photos
i don't know
y'all have some trouble
some of y'all just got got
and then the act of deleting something
too right like we talked about this i
think at the very first like how the
internet class works like when you
delete something like in a lot of
computer systems when you delete
something you're not actually deleting
anything
you're just marking that space and
memory to be overwritten so even if it
was deleted that data is like still
sitting there until the space gets
overwritten with new data
right like that that's that's going a
little deeper but like like on like
phones and stuff if you ever have people
that were able to recover deleted stuff
on off of like hard drives and stuff
like that it's because the space was
just marked for
to be overwritten but the content was
never actually like deleted yeah
you know
cool
all right so i think that'd be a really
cool extension
right i think it'd be a really cool like
if you're going to try and like build on
top of this make this app your own if
you want something cool to try try
deleting it so the user doesn't see
things that were deleted but you keep
the data right
that's cool like that'd be fun to try
but do something with this app this
weekend please
please do something with this app as
well
cool
all right
so we walk through the creating the
reading update deleting there was one
other interesting thing here
and that other interesting thing was
that there are actually there's actually
a third type of click that we were
listening for
and that third type of click was
if we were clicking on something
that had the completed class right so if
we're updating these things or if we're
looking here and like i
click on get fancy bread
that changed it to the um strikeout but
then i can i can i can change it back
to the um i can change it back to like
without the strikethrough right
and i can do the uncomplete
right
and so those were actually two different
clicks
one click was marking it complete
the other click was marking it
uncomplete
and so what i have is another click
event that's listening for like one
that's listening for things that are not
completed and one that's listening for
things that are completed and they're
slightly different requests right one's
going to mark something complete which
means i have to change something on the
database to true and then mark
uncomplete is very similar
but when this request makes it to the
server the server is going to mark it as
let's see
false right so we can see that mark
complete sends it to true and mark
uncomplete sets it to false so we
actually have two different puts here in
this application one to handle the
completing and one to handle the
uncompleting
so just in case you were kind of a
little
confused about what that was that's just
going to help you to see those two
different routes
cool
all right so if you look at the slides
there's a quite more bit here in the
slides that i really recommend
um that i really recommend that you
look through
in this slide there's a breakdown of
each of the key steps so
if you were trying to set up this
project
here are some of the steps you might
follow if you're going to do it from
scratch
connecting your database you kind of
just copy and paste
this lovely
set of code here
and
what you'll notice is that in my code
i don't have the [__] connection string
just like chilling
in there so if you if you look at my
code you can see that i'm using my
environment variables we've done this in
a past class and members of the stream
team have walked through this as well
and so i'm actually storing my
connection my db string in my env file
right so that when i push this to github
my [__] connection string doesn't get
pushed up to github
and i
have
my mongodb set so that it only works
with my ip address so even if you did
have my connection string you wouldn't
be able to write to this database at the
moment
right
cool
so we do have like me using the emv
files and so i'm just going to walk
through i'm just going to show the other
slides that are here and then i'm going
to walk through everything
so if you want to use the emv files
there's some slides on it the database
with the env file is here
setting up the server stuff is here
creating public files like all the
little the little steps are here like
piece by piece should you need them but
let's look through this code base
yeah
and uh mine was that we linked to
uh has has walked through
kind of all this step by step and we've
linked to it in the discord as well so
of course we're using express we're
setting up apps that we can use express
um we're using the the main way we're
going to talk to mongodb we're just
using this [__] client eventually we
might use things like mongoose to talk
to mongodb
um we're setting up our port at 21 21 21
21 21 all right and i am setting up that
i'm going to use my env files right i'm
going to use my env files
and so the reason why i use env files
like i said is i don't want to put my
connection to my [__] database on
github let's say i whitelisted all my ip
addresses then anyone could start making
changes uh to the the database so i put
that in my env file and having this line
on line five is what enables me to use
the env file um
otherwise what you see here
is not something that you would have
memorized you would just copy and paste
this so it's not like something that
like you would pull out your your brain
and be like oh i gotta do this this no
this is a lego brick
right it's a lego brick that you want to
connect to a database you grab this lego
brick and you put at the top of your
file but the best thing is
you don't need
to even know where to go to get those
lego bricks anymore because you could
just start with this template
right you could just start with this
template and everything is already here
for you the only thing that you would
need to do would be to do an npm install
right would be to do an npm install and
then to have an env file um
an env file
that lists the mongodb string
you have those two things you can just
use this template and off to the off to
the runs there
somebody submitted a pr on this actual
repo so i'll approve that that walks
through step by step how to do all those
things but once you have it you're
connected to your database we have this
lovely variable called db which is the
actual database that we're connected to
so wherever you see db inside of your
um your your api here you know you're
connected to the actual
uh database
cool
we're using ejs this is a lot of stuff
we've already covered in the past so i'm
just going to go into it quickly we're
using egs as our templating language we
have one of my favorite lines of code
which just means that we are
using our public folder to hold all of
our static files like our css and our
javascript files and then we have our
lovely
code that helps us kind of do what body
parser used to do we're able to look at
the requests that are coming through and
pull the data out of those requests
that's how we're able to get the text
out of the request so that we can update
our database or delete stuff from our
database
cool
and that's kind of the big stuff here
no other really big glue except for the
app.listen we've talked about in the
past how we have this like line here so
it could be using our port or eventually
if you put your stuff on heroku you're
going to use the environment variables
when we get through mvc next week the
glue changes a little bit so
i'm not going to spend too i don't want
to spend too much time right now going
through all this glue because it is
going to change a little bit next week
and so once we get through mvc next week
we'll spend like a whole class talking
about the env files and the connection
strings and all that fun stuff because
it does change a little bit and so um i
don't want you to stress about this
right now just
copy and paste it for now and know that
it will change a little bit next week
and then we'll go deeper
questions while we're here
let's do um
do a slido real quick
we got some time so
uh
i will not be holding office hours on
sunday but mine will be doing office
hours on sunday so let's go ahead and do
a little bit of just
like mini office hours for me if you got
questions uh i got some answers for you
let me go ahead and
just open up a slider real quick one
second
i'm gonna go
let me go
while we're here doing this
um
what is office hours office hours is
just a time for folks to ask questions
and so
um
normally i do office hours every sunday
it's probably gonna be like another one
or two sundays before i'm back doing
office hours i'm probably gonna do
um like discord call or something else
like that and replacing my office hours
for the next two weeks and then uh once
once
i get through like next week or two
they'll come back and we'll have our
normal office hours so
no need to worry they will come back
eventually i know a lot of people really
get a lot of value out of them and
really like them um so we'll do that
soon
i was not logged into it one second
folks
i definitely recommend sticking around
for the office hours a little bit a lot
of folks ask a lot of really good
questions that kind of you would want to
know in terms of the cohort so
let's do it
get a new one here
class
all right so we got a new slido that i'm
that is open right now
i'm going to post it into our chat a few
times here so you can grab it if you
need to
boom
there we go all right so if you got some
questions i will be able to answer them
there
go ahead and bring your questions if you
haven't
also take a look at chat
all right
well office hours be held in hundreds of
agencies we'll eventually leave cat
space we'll come back to earth
and uh we'll be doing it in the dr dev's
agency space
we need channel points for leon to shave
his beard i shaved it went down it's way
smaller than it was before
i wasn't taking care of it
[Music]
ejs is the frustrating part can i jump
straight to studying react
templating languages are hugely popular
and different is saying especially in
like ruby php yeah you definitely want
to make sure you understand the basics
of templating languages um
the
the thing for me is like there are some
things that i i
have a heart i've been doing it for so
long there sometimes things i really try
to like check my like beginner biases
but for me ejs just makes so much sense
it's just html that you can plug stuff
into
right and so when you're trying to build
really basic stuff you only need to know
how to do like the open and close
and then like the open and close with
the equal sign and then you can do
whatever the heck you want like to me
that just makes a lot of sense like
templating languages
just like it did they just work right
you don't have to like learn this whole
other tool chain all this extra stuff
like you don't have to spend like a
month learning something else to just
like get text on the screen
right
um
so for me like i it's one of the hard
ones where it's like templating
languages just enable me to do stuff
pretty quickly now i love react like it
helps me do a lot of stuff like but when
you're just starting out
just get it to work you know
hey never got a chance to say thank you
my program helped me get a job at amazon
as a software developer engineer 110k
with a 10k sign on i'm in my second
month came back to support the channel a
seahawk i appreciate that thank you so
much for swinging by
see walker can you send me um i'll grab
your name but send me a dm send me a dm
on discord i would love to talk to you
and see how things are going
congrats that's huge
let me grab your name here before i
forget it
yes i mean dm
um we gotta we we're gonna need to start
like uh an employee resource group at
amazon because there's a lot of 100 devs
folks there now
here we go we got to like get you all
together to hang out or something that'd
be fun
quite a few
uh leon are there any productivity apps
that you use that you would recommend
um
i
live through my google calendar
notion
and probably forest if i'm going to use
a pomodoro timer and that's about it
pen and paper occasionally
i don't really like any other
things than that at the moment i try to
like narrow it down to like one place to
dump my brain
one place to like actively work and like
one thing to keep me
keep me focused so right now notion is
like my brain dump pen and paper is like
my like active work
and
calendar is like what i have to do every
day so my entire day
gets put in google calendar if it's not
my google calendar i'm not showing up
i'm not going to be there um and so that
helps me just like
my brain doesn't work unless it's in the
google calendar
is it notion a paid application no you
can use notion for free for like a very
very long time it's only if you're
storing like a lot of really big stuff
in there so they don't like store like
videos or like images in there otherwise
it's free um
like i have like a couple of them
that i don't pay for and i have a lot of
stuff in them
uh some other things too that people use
or like get book is becoming pretty
popular because you can just like use
markdown inside of it there are a bunch
of other tools find a tool that like
doesn't make you think
right
i like notion because i have a lot of
templates that just make it so that i
can just type and it organizes stuff for
me yeah
uh when is the office in cs go opening
uh i gotta get somebody else to work on
it the person that was working on it
disappeared um but
i'll add that to the
to the the weekends musings cause i
really wanna i really wanna get it up
too
yeah i just gotta find somebody else to
work on it
we have everything working except for
the 64 people
like it everything i wanted to do it
does it just doesn't have all 64 on it
yeah
is there any free domain hosting um
every once in a while you'll find
something but typically not sometimes
you can get your first year free
um but you can just use like netlify and
like use whatever your project is
netlify.com i just that i just recommend
that in the beginning just throw it on
netlify's
domain
uh do you think we should be able to
solve these coding challenges from fang
companies with what we know now
absolutely not
um no we haven't done data structures
and algorithms yet also like fang really
shouldn't be the goal like if that's
your goal sure go for it but there are
so many other amazing companies that'll
pay you really well treat you really
well and you'll have a way easier time
getting into
um than fang
bang is because some youtuber sold you
in a dream
which is okay to have those dreams but
you could probably be supporting a
really wonderful lifestyle and then work
up the thing
one of my one of my students i was just
literally talking to i'm gonna get them
on either
we're building out the agency site and
there's gonna be a section for like
students um
but one of my past students
they took
their first offer
was 60k
um and then the 60k turned into a
hundred k
uh after their three month trial period
and then they jumped up to
i i think it was 140 it was like a
bigger jump than i was expecting it was
and then the company opened a new office
in san francisco
and they asked if they wanted to be one
of the first engineers to work out of
the sf office and they say yes and they
got bumped up to 220.
and this is in under three years this is
like two and a half years
starting at 60 to 220 at the same
company
[Music]
and so there are tons of companies like
that and they had really great
mentorship like they got trained really
well they were able to work on really
exciting projects so like
there's so much opportunity out there
that you don't have to go for these like
super hard leak coding your brains out
type companies to get the things that
you probably want if you're looking at
those types of companies
um
i feel a lack of this is another
question coming from the slido i feel
lack of inspiration or creativity when
thinking of projects or just coding in
general lawson ideas for the 100 hours
project any advice
uh the advice for your 100 hours project
is to make something that you wish
exists
or something that
like something that you want or
something that you hate and want to fix
right so i always say like build
something that you want and div ker one
of our mods all you said or you can like
build something that fixes something
that you hate right and so one of those
two things are going to be the best
product project you could build because
you'll be passionate to build it um if
there's like nothing that you are
passionate about right like it could be
something simple too like it could be
like you love to play cs go and you have
a really hard time finding other folks
that want to play cs go with you so you
create a site that helps gamers connect
right beautiful idea for 100 project
brings your passions into it you'll
probably sink 100 hours into it some
people think it has to be like these
really big grand ideas it just doesn't
have to be it's up to you what you want
it to be
if you really really are stuck
and you really have no idea what you
want to build
just build something that you think a
lot of companies might hire for
build a e-commerce experience
so many e-commerce companies are hiring
to build something that's like an
ecommerce shopping cart type experience
right so if you really can't come up
with an idea of something that you love
or something that you hate
build something that a lot of companies
would find useful
um and also when we start applying when
we get into the hunt
you're gonna be building like a lot of
mini projects for those companies like
we're gonna have 60 companies that we
network our way into our top 10 you're
going to build simple node apps for
those companies so if you are applying
to shopify you're going to build a
simple music player if you're if sorry
spotify if you're applying the shopify
you'd build a simple shopping cart if
you were applying to adolescent you
build a bug tracker like jira right like
we're going to build a lot of mini
projects for the top tier companies we
want to work at
or not top tier but the companies that
we want to work at the most
will you be posting the answers to banky
uh someone actually started a github
repo with all the questions and is
crowdsourcing the answers
um so curtis bernard is the person
curtis did it so uh i you can just look
at my twitter feed and i retweeted it um
i will
link to it in discord um next week i
actually don't want to link to it like i
like
it's a catch 22. i love that people are
doing it
i still think you should write your own
answers
so if you're not going to write your own
answers you don't have the time that's
okay look at my twitter
but i still think you're going to get
the most value out of writing your own
answers
it just does something different in your
brain that actually helps you remember
and remember in your own words so that
you interview better but if you don't
have the time just look at my twitter
and you'll be able to find it
uh can we do pokemon cards soon when we
do
office hours i'll do the next batch
and
um
i have somebody helping me now
with kind of like admin stuff the
agency's going to make it's technically
just made our first hire
because there's a lot of little admin
stuff that i just legitimately
i keep getting backlogged on uh and so
i'm gonna have somebody helping me with
all the a lot of these like smaller
stuff in the background yeah
so we should see a lot of that stuff go
out soon
uh how do i make my projects look pretty
use templates
what's the make the best way to make or
place to find good ui
templates um on top of templates you can
use any ui stuff
um bootstrap on like the old schooler
way
tailwind anything that you think could
just help with your ui material whatever
you want um when we get when we get to
react it'll you'll open up a few more ui
things that could be helpful
but in the beginning just use a plain
old html css template yeah or a really
good ui library like indifference saying
uh what's your favorite pokemon ever
bulbasaur i want to incorporate scrape
data from other sites into a project um
do you recommend any libraries like
axios um
yeah i mean axios is amazing we'll use
it towards the end of program
um
depends on higher scraping data
beautiful soup stuff like that can help
with scraping it depends on what you're
what you're trying to do
uh can you tell us more about the 100
devs agency yeah as we get a little bit
further along the idea is that um i want
to have an agency
that helps support the
the program
uh in two ways one
i eventually would like people to be
able to be paid for working on code like
i think it's great that so many folks
want to give up their nights and
weekends for free
um but if there was a way to get paid
while you learned i think that's the
ultimate
[Music]
equitable way for folks to learn
the cool thing about rc is that we raise
money
[Music]
we raise money as a non-profit to pay
our students
and there's a lot of upsides and
downsides to it i would love if there
was a for-profit entity
of a hundred devs that
helped
with stipends for folks that need it
and
also gave real world experience to
developers that just completed the
program i think a lot of bootcamps are
really good at like zero to learning how
to code
i don't think a lot of folks have really
cracked like
i've been coding for a year how do i
become like a senior developer and i
think that could be the agency pathway i
think like once you've graduated boot
camp you could be
in an agency surrounded by some really
amazing developers uh indifference are
you looking for hires yes uh so you'd be
surrounded by really good developers
like indifferent that help you really
grow as an engineer and takes you from
that i know what i'm doing to becoming a
really good senior developer and then
the money that's coming in could help
fund the boot camp experience for folks
that need it um
also it's pretty expensive to run all
this stuff like like really expensive
and so there needs to be some way to do
it sustainably and i don't like taking
money from students so i'm never going
to take money from students to help like
run stuff and so the agency i think is a
little bit more of a sustainable way
to do the things that i want to do and
make sure that i'm just not eating
significant costs
costs yeah
yep
oh
let's see
uh what is all the job verification
stuff that you've been mentioning
recently uh yeah so when you apply to
jobs
you
need to like verify what you've been
doing
and so all of you are part of an agency
that has a training program you were all
in the training program
and when you start applying to jobs some
jobs are going to ask hey can someone
verify that you were in this training
program
and so a lot of my time right now is is
verifying that yes they were in the
program and then probably hopping on a
call and talking about the things that
they were able to build learn and do
and so
last cohort that was pretty easy it was
a couple hundred people right so i can
make that work
but now we're looking at
a couple thousand
especially with the ketchup crew coming
behind and so that's the reason why i
needed to to bring on a higher because
managing thousands of requests coming in
um
verifying that everyone has been part of
the program
and
like responding in a timely manner just
won't happen so
blah and i are working on a really good
process for that so that when you do
need those references or you do need
those verifications there's a system
that you can follow for it and then on
the back end we're gonna have somebody
that's helping me to like set up my
calendar and make sure all that stuff's
happening and going through it yeah
yep
and a lot of people are saying like leon
i'd volunteer to do it i i love that
people want to volunteer so many other
things i'm gonna ask you to volunteer
for but something that important like
that that should be equitably hired
right like people should be getting paid
for that
uh
atlas pug said what's the best way for
us to volunteer at time we went up 100
devs and different handed out the park
yep answer questions in the in the
in the discord
uh so many folks come and say they want
to help that's the best way to help jump
on discord answer people's questions
when they get stuck jump in voice
channels to help people when they're
stuck um
sometimes that's not sexy enough for
folks but that's what it that's what we
need that's what that's the thing that
could help the most
uh a potential employer asked me how
many years of experience i have what
would you say to them if i only touch
code for the first time at the beginning
of this cohort um so it depends what if
you really have never coded anything
then you would say
you could say one year
you could you would never just say i
only have one year what you would say is
i've been involved in technology for a
number of years first doing x y and z um
but way back in the day i started off
with myspace i would always customize my
myspace page i customize my neopet page
so i've been writing code since i was
little
but i've been taking it very very
seriously since the pandemic i wanted to
switch careers
so i went to switch my focus into web
development and so i really went deep
into building really robust applications
i went really deep into building
applications i thought would help other
people uh here are the projects that
i've built here the clients i've worked
with so you would never actually just
say
one year because then you get dismissed
but you say oh no i've been in
technology for this long
you highlight the things that you've
done a lot of folks have gotten clients
a lot of folks if you did the homework i
asked you to build something that helps
others well guess what you can bring
that up in interviews right and so if
you did all the things that we've been
asking you to do
once we get to the hunt we spend a lot
of time
on how to talk about your experience
that's like the biggest part of the hunt
is like actually talking in a way that
gets you past the gatekeepers and to the
folks that are going to actually care
about your code quality
will there be a next cohort
who knows uh we might get so busy with
the agency but there's always the
catch-up crew you can always join right
now get the support you need work
through the classes and get up to
joining us live
hey jason carr that's amazing congrats
let's keep pushing
uh for the homework with the pr i
trouble linking my repo with the 100 des
repo
um can you go over how to link it uh
just fork my code and make your changes
that's it um
if you're having trouble with that i've
actually linked on discord in the
follow-on materials channel
members of the stream team doing exactly
that step by step
[Music]
in dire need of work by the end of
august on how soon recruiters are all
over me many from agencies that provide
1099 contracts should i hold out hell no
if you need to work work especially 1099
that's not a you're not committing to
long-term work get the 1099 get paid and
when you find a
a better position or a more long-term
position take it yeah don't ever turn
down to 99 work especially if you need
monies
also
i'm not one of these like
i have no loyalty to companies
i really i don't give a oh at the end of
the day they don't care about me i don't
care about them
and
i'm there to make money i'm not there
because i like them i'm not there
because i i love what they do
i'm there because they pay me money and
i show up to do the thing that i'm there
to do
and the moment somebody else wants to
pay me more for the same thing i'm doing
deuces because when the pandemic hit
or when the layoffs happened recently
they didn't give a [__] about us so
nah
nope
i'm there to get mine and everyone
understands that they just don't want to
hear it
so when you're interviewing you never
say any of this stuff
you never say any of this stuff when
you're interviewing it's all about how
passionate you are how much it aligns
with your values
now but everybody knows what's up we
just can't say it get the bag
uh is there a way to look at a website's
server-side code using devtools no
some servers will expose apis or you can
look at their api documentation
but a lot of time you don't you don't
want to expose what's happening on your
server because that could lead to some
really bad security stuff yeah
so a lot of times they'll open up
they'll expose certain api endpoints
that you can use but anything else is
typically not available for you to see
um you can see different stacks and
technologies they're using sometimes
based off of how they respond to stuff
yeah
how long are your coffee chats uh i
believe right now they're set to 15
minutes normally i do 10 to 15 minute
coffee chats
uh i must have phrased it right i repo
with a project how do i set my repo to
yours i forked it uh you got to submit a
pull request submit a pull request
oh yeah and difference that's so much so
that some apis will remove info headers
to prevent letting you know the
framework they're using
uh is there a way to download an entire
website like on github to study
um you can download like the full client
side code for a lot of sites but you
won't be able to download like back ends
unless they have it on github or
something like that already
uh
can you go through the end part of
update and delete you went through fast
what happens once the client side hears
the request
how does it update the ejs
so
once the change has been made on the
database
we send the response back to the client
telling it to refresh the page
when it refreshes the page
that makes a new request to the server
where it gets all the data out of the
database plugs that into the ejs and
then that ejs spits out html that is
sent back to the client so if you missed
that part on tuesday you definitely want
to go back and watch tuesday's class and
look at our get request because the get
requests are how we get data out of the
database plug it into the ejs ejs spits
out html and then we respond with that
html
uh highland do you have any offer
negotiation tips in your previous cohort
yeah we had a whole class on negotiation
like legitimately a whole class in
negotiation um
here's the big heavy hitters about
negotiating an offer
when you get an offer
you should say
thank you so much for this offer this
company is the company i want to work at
i'm so excited to join the company i
want to be here for the long haul so
that means that this decision
affects me and my family for the next
five years like this is where i want to
be this is where i want to grow i'm over
the moon
can you give me the week to talk through
with my family
my loved ones and i will get back to you
on friday
just making sure i could read through
all the details and really know what the
next five years of my life are going to
look like i'm super excited to join your
company
they say yes you immediately follow up
with an email saying super excited um
really look forward looking forward to
talking to you on friday at 8 00 a.m
i'll send you a note leading up to it or
calendar invite
that gives you some time to think about
the offer and when you get an offer the
only thing you want them to think about
is how excited you are to join the
company but also knowing that it's a big
decision for you because if it wasn't a
big decision then
maybe you don't really want to work
there so emphasizing it's a big decision
for you that affects your family but you
want them at the end of the day to be
believing 100 that you're joining that
company
like you you you need to to get that
across that like you're super excited
you love the offer this is where you
want to be you want to hammer that in so
that's what they're thinking about
then when you go back and you say
hey i'm super excited to join this
company right i had a chat with my my
loved ones
we're we're super excited like i'm all
on board uh to join this company however
the starting salary is a little lower
than what i'm seeing in the market
is there any wiggle room
on the starting salary
and that's it that's all you say right
is there any wiggle room on the starting
salary you don't make any demands
you don't give a price
you just say wiggle room and the reason
why you say wiggle room is because they
really don't have any wiggle room
they'll say no i'm sorry we gave you our
best offer and then you get to make a
decision as to whether or not that's the
price for you
it's a it's a phrasing that doesn't make
people scared that you don't want to
work there
right
and then it gives them the ability to
say actually we don't have any wiggle
room and then they say no or they say
actually we do have some window room how
about x right and then they'll sit
they'll give you the counter and then
you could take that if you want
if you have multiple offers
you can say
i really want to join this company
this is the company i want to be at
however i have an offer from another
company that is that is higher than the
offer that you have made to me
is there any way you can get me close to
x and x is like 20k more than what they
offered you right is there any way you
can get me close to that this this other
number
and the phrasing of is there any way you
can get me close to that number is
really important because it gives them
the freedom to say you know what we
couldn't get you all the way there but
we can get you here without triggering
that reflex in their brain that says um
oh they don't want to work here no no no
is anyone can get me close this is the
company i want to work at can you get me
close to this other number that i'm
seeing right now
right
and so if you use these very specific
phrasings
the world is yours
you will get better offers you will get
better counters and we have whole
classes
just on this stuff
i've been doing this for 10 years i know
how to have these conversations i know
how to help folks negotiate better
offers and so if you're excited about
this type of stuff boy do we have some
classes coming up for you
uh when we get into authentication will
each user have their own database or
collection no we will have a users
collection with all of our users in it
and then we tie users to other data and
other collections based off of their ids
uh
how much does hiring slow down after the
first year
um how much does hiring slow down after
the first year
i'm not sure what you mean by that like
after your first year on the job like
how how often do you jump a lot of folks
will jump every two years in the
beginning two to three depending on if
you really like your company
because it's just often easier to get
more money by jumping
oh you mean like at the end of the year
like uh so there's like a gap
like december very few offers go out in
december
um
yeah very few offers go out in december
and then it picks up around like
middle january where like they kind of
make up lost time
yeah
yeah it's very rare to see like that's
why it's huntober like huntober is
really important because like that's
where a lot of the last kind of offers
of the year start being formulated
into november and then december
everyone's on holiday yeah so it's hard
in december
we've had we've had cohorts of rc that
graduate in december and did okay
but it's definitely like that's kind of
a hard month
um
[Music]
how do you phrase your expertise to
convince an interviewer that you have
the same experience as a two-year
candidate uh
i mean
years don't matter
nobody really cares about the number of
years if a company really cares with the
number of years they just they're just
they're shooting themselves in the foot
they're not going to get good candidates
what they're using is years as a proxy
for how much you might know
right
so if you can show them that you have
paid clients you can show them that
you've volunteered for non-profits if
you can show them that you have built
stuff that helps others if you can show
them that you've built a hundred dollars
project if you can show them the agency
projects that we work on at the end of
cohor if you can show them all the
little things that you've built you have
a really good github you have a really
good linkedin a good resume a good
portfolio you have all these things you
can just go boop like i don't have to
tell you i can show you
everything that i'm able to do that's
how you do it
um
and then the actual interview process is
how we beat out people you can give me
you can give me all day long people that
have more experience but don't know how
to interview and i will
run circles around them
because knowing how to interview is a
whole skill of itself and if you know
how to interview and you know how to do
it well you will constantly beat folks
that have way more experience than you
and so that's why we spend a big portion
of the end of program on like how to
interview how to network your way into
positions and how to
stand out in the job search
uh it's end of program thailand being
extended since we had a long break yeah
a little bit we're like a month over so
a month over where i it to be because
i'm going to make up some time
we're going to chop some stuff
that i did last cohort that we're going
to do this color because it wasn't
really it was more like sponsored stuff
so i'm chopping out some of the
sponsored stuff to make up the time so
we're kind of like a month off by the
end um but we're at class 45 of around
60. yeah
cool
uh when were the agencies that be live
very soon
we have it on staging we just got to
push it
uh codeword is really helpful for me to
learn javascript syntax are there
similar ways to learn ejs express
building and breaking the code that i
just shared with you
so the code i just shared with you
tonight build it break it play with it
you can add those pieces to your anki
deck
at this point you need to be building
that's where you're going to learn the
most build break troubleshoot errors get
lost in it like that's that's how you
learn back end
similar to how you would do like code
wars s stuff
um eventually it's all it should be
project based more going forward
cool
all right let's uh let's see
we're almost at our time right now so
let's go ahead and do a raid let's go
get those sweet sweet channel points oh
juice box hero is on
so let's go ahead and rate juice box
hero